Here is a chronology of the captivity of Terry Anderson , chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press 
Terry Anderson is one of 14 foreign hostages , including nine Americans , missing and believed held in Lebanon 
1985 March 16 _ Anderson abducted on Beirut street 
Telephone caller says Islamic Jihad kidnapped Telephone caller as part of continuing operations against America and _ Islamic Jihad agents 
May 16 _ First photo of Anderson in captivity released 
Islamic Jihad warns of catastrophic consequences if Kuwait does not free alleged terrorists 
Sept. 9 _ Rev. Benjamin Weir , another Islamic Jihad captive , freed after 16 months in captivity 
President Reagan says President Reagan will not be satisified until remaining Americans also are released 
Oct. 29 _ Beirut television stations broadcast videotaped birthday message from relatives and friends to Anderson 
Nov. 8 _ In an open letter , Anderson and three other American captives held by Islamic Jihad call on Reagan to have mercy and negotiate with kidnappers 
All four hostages are allowed to write to three other American captives families 
Another letter to the Archbishop of Canterbury appeals for Terry Waite to mediate with Islamic Jihad 
1986 Feb. 15 _ Anderson's father , Glenn R. Anderson , dies of cancer at age 69 
June 7 _ Anderson's 46-year-old brother , Glenn Richard Jr. , dies of cancer four days after making a videotape from Glenn Richard Jr. bed appealing to Terry's captors 
July 26 _ Rev. Lawrence Martin Jenco , freed after almost 19 months as hostage , says Lawrence Martin Jenco was held with Anderson and two other hostages for a year 
Oct. 3 _ In a videotaped appeal , Anderson and David Jacobsen call on the Reagan administration to work as hard for their release as their release did to secure the release of journalist Nicholas Daniloff in Moscow 
Oct. 31 _ Beirut TV stations broadcast videotape showing Anderson's 16-month-old daughter , whom Glenn R. Anderson has never seen 
Nov. 2 _ Jacobsen , freed after 17 months in captivity , says hostages are in hell 
Nov. 15 _ Islamic Jihad releases new picture of Anderson 
Dec. 28 _ Fourth picture of Anderson sent by captors to Western news agency in Beirut 
1987 Jan. 16 _ Islamic Jihad distributes another picture of Anderson 
June 7 _ Anderson's daughter is shown on Lebanese television on 7 _ Anderson 's daughter second birthday saying , Terry 's captors hearts are broken 
Where is daddy ? 
Aug. 2 _ Sixth photo of Anderson released by Islamic Jihad 
Oct. 21 _ Islamic Jihad releases another photo of Anderson 
Oct. 27 _ Anderson turns 40 
Friends and family gather at Jefferson Memorial in Washington and AP staff in Beirut goes to AP staff in Beirut vacant office to mark the day 
Nov. 26 _ Jacobsen says 26 _ Jacobsen learned from sources in the U.S. government and the Middle East that Anderson is being held again in chains and blindfolded 24 hours a day 
Dec. 10 _ Anderson passes 10 _ Anderson 1,000 th day as a hostage 
Dec. 24 _ Islamic Jihad release a videotape of Anderson 
Appearing to read from a prepared text , Glenn R. Anderson criticizes the Reagan administration for failing to secure the release of himself and other Americans and warns there is a limit how long we can last 
Dec. 30 _ A London newspaper reports that a CIA analysis of the tape indicated Anderson may be held in Basta prison in west Beirut with missing Anglican Church envoy Terry Waite 
1988 March 16 _ Anderson begins 16 _ Anderson fourth year in captivity 
April 10 _ Islamic Jihad threatens in a statement , accompanied by a photo of Anderson , that _ Islamic Jihad will kill _ Islamic Jihad captives if any attempt is made to storm a Kuwaiti jetliner hijacked by Shiite extremists 
May 4 _ Islamic Jihad freed three French hostages 
May 9 _ Release French hostage Marcel Fontaine , also held by Islamic Jihad , says Anderson's greatest fear is that the Americans will launch a commando raid to free Glenn R. Anderson , an action Glenn R. Anderson believes would mean Glenn R. Anderson certain death 
Aug. 18 _ Islamic Jihad issues a photo of Anderson with a statement saying he and another U.S , hostage will not be freed soon , squelching speculation three French hostages would be released following the gulf war cease-fire 
Aug. 18 _ Islamic Jihad also contains new demands : an Israeli withdrawal from south Lebanon and compensation for the reconstruction of south Lebanon and south Beirut 
Oct. 3 _ Mithileshwar Singh , and Indian national and U.S. rediaent alien , is freed by another Shiite faction 
Oct. 21 _ Islamic Jihad threatens to punish Oct. 21 _ Islamic Jihad captives in retaliation for Israeli air raids in south Lebanon 
A photo of Anderson accompanies the statement 
Oct. 23 _ Islamic Jihad threatens in a statement , accompanied by a photo of Anderson , that its American hostages will a price that will reflect adversely on its American hostages if the group's demands are not met 
Oct. 24 _ Islamic Jihad denies any connection with a Lebanese woman arrested in Milan with a photo of Anderson and another U.S. hostage 
Oct. 27 _ Anderson is 41 , 27 _ Anderson fourth birthday in captivity 
Islamic Jihad issues a photo of 27 _ Anderson to authenticate a statement again denying any connection with the women held in Milan 
Oct. 31 _ Islamic Jihad issues a videotape of Anderson to mark Glenn R. Anderson 41st birthday 
Glenn R. Anderson says the U.S. government is impeding Glenn R. Anderson release and adds : Glenn R. Anderson find the U.S. government difficult to keep Glenn R. Anderson hope and courage high 
