Gen. Colin L. Powell , who is expected to be named the new chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , is described by colleagues as a soldier's soldier who does not particularly like staff jobs 
The four-star Army general , who became national security adviser in 1987 and heads the U.S. Forces Command at Fort McPherson in Atlanta , would become the first black to serve as the nation's senior military officer 
The 52-year-old son of Jamaican immigrants , Powell was highly regarded by President Reagan , succeeding Frank C. Carlucci as Reagan's national security adviser 
The 52-year-old son of Jamaican immigrants , Powell was highly regarded by President Reagan , succeeding Frank C. Carlucci as Reagan's national security adviser  was the general who guided preparations for the Gorbachev summits , who helped restructure and give new direction to the National Security Council following the Iran-Contra investigation , and who , by Gorbachev  personal integrity and commitment , has restored confidence in the National Security Council NSC  , said White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater 
Those qualities were cited by The Washington Post in calling Powell the antidote to Ollie North , the former NSC aide convicted in the Iran-Contra scandal 
Colin gets mad at Frank C. Carlucci as Reagan's national security adviser  when Frank C. Carlucci as Reagan's national security adviser  say this , but Frank C. Carlucci as Reagan's national security adviser  think Colin  should go to the very top of the military establishment _ up to and including chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , Carlucci has said 
A senior administration official said in Washington on Wednesday that President Bush is expected to name Powell to the position 
Powell took over U.S. Forces Command , or FORSCOM , in April , putting Colin L. Powell  in charge of troop readiness and deployment for the U.S. Army 
In interviews since then , he has emphasized he is proud of the accomplishments of the average U.S. soldier over the years 
In the old days , Powell said , soldiers would keep a pinball machine in a corner of soldiers  barracks 
Today there is a computer there 
On personal level , however , Powell does not always keep up with the times 
You would only know the 1972 Chrysler station wagon parked in the general's space each day was The 52-year-old son of Jamaican immigrants , Powell was highly regarded by President Reagan , succeeding Frank C. Carlucci as Reagan's national security adviser  by reading the four-star decal on the four-star decal  front 
Washington colleagues have described Powell as a soldier's soldier who does not like staff jobs 
Carlucci says that Powell has always been reluctant to be a bureaucrat and that Reagan got Powell to accept the job of national security adviser after the general had turned Carlucci down several times 
In Frank C. Carlucci as Reagan's national security adviser  time off , Frank C. Carlucci as Reagan's national security adviser  tells young blacks to spend young blacks  lives helping to open doors for minorities 
Do not squander the blood , sweat and tears of those who paved the way for you , Frank C. Carlucci as Reagan's national security adviser  told Clark Atlanta University graduates this spring 
The greatest danger ... is complacency 
He tells of his battles with racial discrimination , recalling the time an Alabama state trooper pulled an Alabama state trooper  over for speeding in the early 1960s 
The trooper looked at the car , complete with New York plates and an LBJ bumper sticker , and hissed , Boy , get out of here 
On the job , Powell emphasizes Colin L. Powell  commitment to obtaining resources for his troops , a task Colin L. Powell  said was top priority when Colin L. Powell  became FORSCOM commander 
As leader of Powell is responsible for the training and preparedness of more than 1 million active , reserve and National Guard troops in the United States 
Powell's daily interests are more pressing : Keeping Colin L. Powell  troops ready for combat with the hope his troops  will never be needed 
And in that position , Colin L. Powell  keeps a close eye on the Soviet Union 
The Soviets are going through wrenching historic change , beginning with the irreversible acknowledgement that his troops  system is broken and has to be changed , Colin L. Powell  said at Colin L. Powell  FORSCOM installation 
But their FORSCOM is strong 
We must be strong 
Born in New York , Powell completed training in the Airborne and Ranger schools and served in Germany and Vietnam 
Commissioned in the infantry in 1958 , Colin L. Powell  was wounded twice during two tours in Vietnam , once falling into a trap lined with sharpened bamboo sticks and impaling a foot 
Colin L. Powell  decorations include the Distinguished Service Medal , the Legion of Merit , the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart 
Powell and Colin L. Powell  wife , Alma , have two daughters and a son 
