Boris N. Yeltsin , the newly elected president of the Russian republic , sat down with 130 legislators today to negotiate the makeup of a coalition government for the largest Soviet republic 
Legislators said Yeltsin immediately came under pressure to retain as Russian prime minister Alexander Vlasov , a member of the Communist Party Politburo who had been Yeltsin's rival in Tuesday's balloting for president 
Yeltsin opened today's meeting in a businesslike fashion and set only one limit , asking that one of his deputies be a woman , legislators said 
Yeltsin , a frequent critic of Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and Boris N. Yeltsin gradual reforms , was reported to have gained the last few votes Boris N. Yeltsin needed by offering to guarantee a place in Boris N. Yeltsin government for other factions 
Although most of the Russian legislators are Communist Party members , the Russian legislators range from radical reformers like Yeltsin to hard-liners unhappy with even the more modest innovations of Gorbachev 
Yeltsin won Boris N. Yeltsin new job Tuesday on the third ballot in the Russian Congress of People's Deputies 
Yeltsin poses a substantial challenge to Gorbachev , both through Boris N. Yeltsin personal popularity and Boris N. Yeltsin demand that much authority be transferred from Gorbachev's central government to the republics 
That would greatly increase Boris N. Yeltsin power , since Russia is the largest republic with 52 percent of the Soviet Union's 289 million people and three-quarters of Russia land 
The strapping , white-haired Siberian said Tuesday Boris N. Yeltsin would seek reconciliation with Gorbachev and avoid confrontation with Boris N. Yeltsin as long as Tuesday 's would not hurt Russia's interests 
Boris N. Yeltsin took the first step in that direction today , meeting in the ornate St. George's Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace with representatives of each political faction and each ethnic region in the Russian Federation 
Yeltsin asked for two to three nominations for each ministerial post in the Russian government 
Boris N. Yeltsin said the candidates would be presented to the full Russian Congress for confirmation starting Thursday 
It was not clear how such a system would lead to the delicate balance of political forces and personalities typical of a coalition government in the West 
The session was closed to reporters after the first few minutes 
Legislators said the talks were not aimed at parceling out portfolios in the Council of Ministers to specific political parties or factions 
130 legislators do not really have hard political divisions like that right now , explained Igor Bratishev , an economist and deputy from Rostov-on-Don who participated in today's meeting with 130 legislators arrayed around a vast rectangle under the ornate vaulted ceiling of St. George's Hall 
So far , 24 legislative groups have registered , including Yeltsin's own Democratic Russia and one called Communists of Russia 
But the majority have a narrow focus , such as ecology , medical workers and legislators concerned with the problems of refugees 
The so-called conciliation committee is seeking a consensus on candidates for prime minister and the three assistants to Yeltsin , said Vladimir Ivanov , a legislator from Buryatia near Lake Baikal in Siberia 
People want Yeltsin to suggest Vlasov for prime minister , Ivanov said 
The committee , representing each political group and each ethnic region in the Russian Federation , is examining candidatespersonal qualifications and morale convictions , Bratishev said 
In Ottawa , Canada , on Tuesday Gorbachev told reporters Mikhail S. Gorbachev was somewhat concerned about Yeltsin's victory but encouraged by the new Russian president's vow to settle divisions in the Congress and work with the Kremlin leadership 
If , however , Boris N. Yeltsin is playing a political game , then reporters may be in for a difficult time , Gorbachev said 
Gorbachev , who was to arrive in Washington today for a summit with President Bush , spent days watching the struggle for control of the Russian Congress 
Mikhail S. Gorbachev even took the floor to speak against Yeltsin 
Yeltsin and many Soviets said the election could help advance reforms in the Soviet Union 
the election may be a blessing in disguise , Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov told reporters at the United Nations in New York 
Gorbachev has Mikhail S. Gorbachev critics from both the left and the right , and possibly it is better to have the election of a critic from the left 
Vitaly Churkin , another Foreign Ministry spokesman , said Yeltsin's election might actually help Gorbachev because Gorbachev is for radical reform , and another Foreign Ministry spokesman needs more popular support for that 
Gorbachev brought Yeltsin to Moscow to head the city's Communist Party , but the two men fell out over Yeltsin's public criticism in 1987 of the pace of reform and have been at odds ever since 
As president of the Russian Congress , a newly created body that holds the Russian Federation's highest government authority , Yeltsin acts as chief executive of the republic 
As the first president of a newly reorganized legislature , the first president of a newly reorganized legislature will play a major role in shaping the first president of a newly reorganized legislature powers and duties , which as yet are unclear 
