Motel guests jumped out of windows and lowered Motel guests  to the ground using bedsheets to escape fire from an explosion apparently caused by a natural-gas leak that killed four and injured 10 
A night desk clerk was investigating reports of a gas leak at the 62-unit Super 8 Motel when the explosion occurred early Sunday , officials said 
officials  had just gotten up to go to the bathroom and had come back and officials  wife said , Do not you smell the gas ? 
said Neal Woodrick , 60 , of Trenton , N.J. And then it happened 
Neal Woodrick , 60 , of Trenton , N.J.  sounded just like a bomb had gone off _ boom , said Neal Woodrick  wife , Joan Woodrick , 58 
Fire officials were to comb the charred remains of the motel today for clues to the explosion 
All of the 45 to 50 guests were believed to be accounted for , authorities said 
Firefighters used a crane , pitch forks and shovels to sift through piles of charred mattresses , carpet , pink insulation and dry wall left from the fire and explosion , which threw debris as far as 300 feet from the building 
Hagerstown Fire Chief Gary Hawbaker  am almost positive a natural gas explosion  was a natural gas explosion , Hagerstown Fire Chief Gary Hawbaker said 
The whole front of the building _ first , second and third floors _ was blown out 
That whole chunk was engulfed 
Hawbaker said there was a natural gas line in the middle of the fire , so we could not put out the rest of the fire until the gas was shut off 
a natural gas line in the middle of the fire  took firefighters about 30 minutes to shut off the gas , Hagerstown Fire Chief Gary Hawbaker  said 
Joan Ganje-Fischer , a spokeswoman for Super 8 Motels Inc. of Aberdeen , S.D. , said that after a guest told the clerk that gas was leaking from the laundry room area , the gas company told the clerk to try to turn the gas off 
a guest  was right in the center of the explosion when the center of the explosion  happened , Joan Ganje-Fischer  said 
a guest  came back to the front desk and his hair was on fire 
a guest  put a guest  hair out with a towel , pulled the alarm notifying the guests , called 911 and then began evacuating the motel 
Donald Lee , 39 , of Shorewood , Wis. , said Donald Lee  awoke , put on pants , a shirt and a coat and jumped 12-15 feet out of a second-story window , breaking Donald Lee  wrist in the fall 
Donald Lee  heard screaming and glass breaking , Donald Lee  said 
A number of people saw flames 
A family had their hair singed 
Some guests were moved to a motel across the street , and the Red Cross provided food , clothing and shelter 
The dead were identified as James G. Scharnek , 34 , of Milwaukee , Wis. ; Kristoddie Brown , 25 , of Capital Heights ; Mercedes Keyes , 26 , of Hagerstown ; and Margretta E. Parker , 70 , of Richmond , Va. 
Ten people were treated at Washington County Hospital for smoke inhalation and minor injuries and were released , spokesman John Costopoulos said 
