Lincoln Savings & Loan owner Charles H. Keating Jr. was a con man who relied on lies and political influence -- juice -- to fool and bully regulators in charge of his ill-fated Irvine-based thrift , California Savings and Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford told an Assembly committee Wednesday 
The committee also heard Gov. George Deukmejian's top campaign fund-raiser , Los Angeles attorney Karl M. Samuelian , defend Gov. George Deukmejian 's actions as one of Keating's attorneys , hired to represent the Arizona businessman's interests before state regulators 
Samuelian said Karl M. Samuelian recommended the appointment of two successive state corporations commissioners -- both of whom subsequently approved the sales of high-risk junk bonds by Lincoln's parent corporation 
Samuelian , Deukmejian's campaign finance chairman since 1982 , also said that Karl M. Samuelian represented Keating at several meetings with state regulators 
After the hearing , Samuelian told reporters that Karl M. Samuelian helped set up meetings between Keating and the regulatorsboss , Business , Transportation and Housing Secretary John K. Geoghegan 
But the hearing was Crawford's blunt remarks about Keating's tactics and demeanor that provided the most provocative testimony Wednesday before the Assembly's Finance and Insurance Committee 
Asked for a simple explanation of why Lincoln Savings failed , prompting a federal takeover in April that could cost taxpayers more than $ 2 billion , Crawford said : If Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford had to pick one reason , Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford would have to say that probably the owner was a con man 
a `` con man '' who relied on lies and political influence -- `` juice '' -- was a dominant person who believed that a `` con man '' who relied on lies and political influence -- `` juice '' -- was above the law and regulations , that a `` con man '' who relied on lies and political influence -- `` juice '' -- was powerful and a `` con man '' who relied on lies and political influence -- `` juice '' -- had the juice and a `` con man '' who relied on lies and political influence -- `` juice '' -- could win 
a `` con man '' who relied on lies and political influence -- `` juice '' -- could fight the regulators , and a `` con man '' who relied on lies and political influence -- `` juice '' -- did a very good job of the law 
When Keating first took over Lincoln in February , 1984 , Keating told state regulators one thing but all along planned to do another , Crawford said 
state regulators said state regulators were going to run a traditional savings and loan 
state regulators lied to us , Crawford said 
Instead , Crawford said , Keating used Lincoln's citizen deposits and sales of high-risk bonds as sources of cash for marginal land acquisitions in Arizona , Colorado , Texas and Louisiana 
Crawford said that when Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford took over the department in 1985 , Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford found that Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford predecessor had allowed Keating to keep the original records of Lincoln Savings in Phoenix , leaving only incomplete copies of documents for California regulators in the Lincoln offices in Irvine 
Crawford said Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford ordered Lincoln's files to be brought back to California after Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford discovered Keating had contributed $ 50,000 to Arizona's attorney general in an uncontested race -- a move that persuaded Keating that any action by California regulators would be resisted by bully regulators in charge of his ill-fated Irvine-based thrift , California Savings and Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford counterparts in Arizona 
Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford also said regulators needed the centralized files to help keep up with Keating's financial empire , which expanded from 32 corporations in 1984 to 54 entities by the end of 1987 
That was 54 places to hide the smoking gun , said Crawford , who added : bully regulators in charge of his ill-fated Irvine-based thrift , California Savings and Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford were never on top of the problems of Lincoln Savings ... 
32 corporations in 1984 could write up (the value of )32 corporations in 1984 assets faster than you could write 32 corporations in 1984 down 
He said the task was made even more difficult by the phalanx of Keating employees and attorneys , who overwhelmed understaffed regulators 
Crawford said Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford tried to keep tabs of Lincoln with only one experienced examiner and two trainees 
only one experienced examiner and two trainees (Lincoln and American Continental )had a battery of people 
only one experienced examiner and two trainees had 48 CPAs , only one experienced examiner and two trainees had 15 attorneys on staff 
Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford just lately learned only one experienced examiner and two trainees employed 77 outside law firms , Crawford said 
Referring to a Home Loan Bank Board memo that said Keating had attempted to have Keating fired , Crawford said Keating did not know of any such effort but added that Keating , like federal regulators , felt beat up by the Arizona businessman 
Proof of the Pudding But Keating insisted that no one from Deukmejian's office tried to influence Gov. George Deukmejian 's handling of Lincoln 
He had the juice (but )he did not have it on a direct line from the governor to me 
Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford am still here , and that is proof of the pudding , Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford think , Crawford said 
The committee's chairman , Assemblyman Patrick Johnston (D-Stockton ), expressed concern about allegations that Keating and Keating associates used political connections to influence state regulators 
Keating was invited to attend the committee hearing but did not respond , Johnston said 
Deukmejian fund-raiser Samuelian , however , said Karl M. Samuelian has never contacted the governor on behalf of any client 
As far as the governor is concerned , Karl M. Samuelian have religiously for 10 years separated Karl M. Samuelian business matters from Karl M. Samuelian (campaign )assistance to the governor , Karl M. Samuelian said 
Samuelian outlined 1986 and 1987 contributions to Deukmejian's campaign committee from Keating's companies , relatives and business associates totaling $ 150,000 , plus an additional $ 100,000 to Republican fund-raising efforts in California that Samuelian collected 
However , Karl M. Samuelian denied ever lobbying for Keating or his companies 
Keating or his companies were representing a client as a lawyer , not doing any lobbying work , Samuelian said 
After the hearing , Samuelian said Karl M. Samuelian helped set up Keating's meetings in February and March , 1988 , with Transportation and Housing Secretary Geoghegan , a Deukmejian appointee whose agency oversees the state's savings and loan and corporations regulators 
Samuelian also revealed to the committee Wednesday that Karl M. Samuelian had recommended that Deukmejian appoint two former law associates , Franklin Tom and Christine W. Bender , as corporation commissioners 
The governor named Tom first , and then Bender succeeded Christine W. Bender 
Both Tom and Bender approved the sale of controversial high-risk bonds issued by American Continental and sold through Lincoln's branches 
After Tom left Franklin Tom post as commissioner , Franklin Tom rejoined Samuelian's law firm and represented Keating's position in meetings with Bender , Franklin Tom successor and former deputy 
Wording Deleted Also during the hearing , state savings and loan examiner Richard Newsom said the state attorney general's office deleted wording in a December , 1988 , cease-and-desist order against American Continental that could have warned investors not to buy the company's high-risk junk bonds 
Newsom said the wording would have been the atomic bomb to end the junk bond sales , which continued through early 1989 
But , loan examiner Richard Newsom added , the attorney general balked at including the language because loan examiner Richard Newsom office lacked the expertise to defend the state on a court challenge over securities matters 
However , Newsom's testimony was immediately refuted by both Atty. Gen. John K. Van de Kamp and an attorney for the Savings and Loan Department 
The attorney , Shirley Thayer , said Shirley Thayer and others in the department made the decision to drop the language , not Van de Kamp 
In Washington , meanwhile , White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Bush had no immediate plans to oust M. Danny Wall , the embattled chairman of the office of thrift supervision 
Wall , who previously headed the Federal Home Loan Bank Board , is under fire for not acting on a recommendation by regional regulators to seize Lincoln in 1987 
The government did not take control of the thrift until last April , and critics contend that the delay greatly increased the eventual cost to taxpayers 
Asked at a press briefing if the White House planned to fire Wall , Fitzwater replied : No , there is been no consideration of Mr. Wall's tenure 
M. Danny Wall is serving on the (office of thrift supervision )board , and there is been no change 
Calls for Wall's resignation have increased in recent days 
On Wednesday , three nonprofit organizations -- the National Taxpayers Union , Public Citizen and Citizens Against Government -- sent a letter to Bush urging President Bush to oust Wall 
