The world reacted with sickened shock and outrage to the brutal beating of a Southern California man by police officers , played out in painful clarity on the screens of tens of millions of television sets this week from an amateur photographer's videotape. ; Some in the black community here reacted with more of a shrug 
You talk to people in the black community here , and black people  say , This is not news , said Joe Hicks , an American Civil Liberties Union spokesman who grew up in the community 
black people  say , Why are all the white people so surprised ? 
A guy got his butt beat by the cops 
his butt beat  happens all the time 
; Behind the shrug , though , emotions run deep 
There is nothing spokesman who grew up in the community  can imagine the guy had done that would justify that kind of response , Hicks said. ; Rodney Glen King , the victim of the beating , on Wednesday was released from Los Angeles County Jail after prosecutors said police had failed to prove prosecutors  charges that spokesman who grew up in the community  resisted arrest after a high-speed chase 
The 10 officers involved in the beating have been taken off patrol. ; King told reporters that there had been no chase , that Rodney Glen King  had done nothing to provoke the attack and that Rodney Glen King  was scared for Rodney Glen King  life during the beating. ; Rodney Glen King  am lucky The 10 officers involved in the beating  did not kill Rodney Glen King  , King said from a wheelchair , displaying a broken ankle , damaged eye and bruises. ; Rodney Glen King  said that police continued to pound on Rodney Glen King  and beat on Rodney Glen King  all over Rodney Glen King  body ... all over Rodney Glen King  body 
Rodney Glen King  ankles 
The 10 officers involved in the beating  beat where it hurt 
The 10 officers involved in the beating  beat my whole body where my whole body  hurt 
; Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl Gates , long controversial for racial statements he has made , called the brutality depicted on the tape an aberration 
; The department issued no statements Wednesday 
Agencies including the FBI , the LAPD , Los Angeles District Attorney's Office and the California Highway Patrol are investigating the beating. ; Police wanted prosecutors to charge King with battery on an officer and resisting arrest , said King's lawyer , Robert Rentzer 
But the district attorney's office refused. ; Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl Gates  have sent the case back to police for further investigation , said Deputy District Attorney Don Eastman 
There are a lot of things we want to look at and a lot of witnesses who were not interviewed 
; The district attorney's office said officers failed to interview available witnesses , including two of King's passengers. ; The pursuit of King's white 1988 Hyundai was initiated by CHP officers , who estimated that King's car was hitting speeds as high as 115 mph on a freeway 
The CHP officers said that The CHP officers  called for assistance and had pulled King over in the Terrace San Fernando Valley area of Los Angeles when several Los Angeles police officers jumped into the mess , said a law enforcement source familiar with the report CHP officers filed with The CHP officers  supervisors 
When the sedan finally stopped off the freeway , King was ordered out of the car. ; The source said that a police sergeant told the CHP that a police sergeant  officers would handle things 
Witnesses said that King was already lying on the ground when a police officer shot a police officer  with a stun gun , delivering an electrical shock 
Officers then clubbed Rodney Glen King  wildly 
There was a brief lull and King lay silent until one officer stomped on one officer  head. ; One of the CHP officers at the scene exhorted the police officers to stop the beating , but was told , in effect , to stay out of it , according to the source. ; King , lifting Rodney Glen King  hospital garb to show other marks , a large bruise on Rodney Glen King  chest , said police shocked Rodney Glen King  ... several Los Angeles police officers  paused for a minute and then several Los Angeles police officers  struck Rodney Glen King  across the face real hard with a billy club 
; The stunning videotape was recorded by George Holliday , a plumber who was awakened about 12:30 a.m. Sunday by the sound of police helicopters overhead 
Holliday went to the terrace of George Holliday  second-story apartment and , seeing police in the street below , decided to get some practice with George Holliday  new videotape recorder. ; Witnesses said three or four officers beat King in the two-minute tape , while as many as seven others stood by to watch. ; Please stop ! 
Please stop ! 
King pleaded as Rodney Glen King  was struck at least 40 times with police batons , said witness Dorothy Gibson. ; King is black 
The races of the police officers involved have not been revealed 
King said Rodney Glen King  did not hear any racial comments from the officers. ; the police officers involved  beat Rodney Glen King  so bad Rodney Glen King  did not pay attention to what the police officers involved  were saying , said King , who had been released from jail in December after serving 2 1/2 years on a second-degree robbery conviction. ; When Rodney Glen King  saw the officers.  on TV , Rodney Glen King  thought , Is this something happening in South Africa or Kuwait ? 
said Keith Huling , 35 , who lives in the same apartment complex as Holliday 
Then Keith Huling  looked a little closer , and said , Hey , that is the park across the street 
; Police have said King resisted arrest 
Witnesses have said Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl Gates  did not. ; Huling said Keith Huling  knows of other police beatings that Keith Huling  believes are racially motivated 
A prevailing sense in Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl Gates  neighborhood this week , Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl Gates  said , is that if Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl Gates  come home from work and make a turn on a red light , Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl Gates  am going to get Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl Gates  butt kicked 
; The perception that non-Anglos are the targets of police brutality has been chronic here. ; Whether that is a perception or a reality is almost beside the point , because the perception is the reality , said Zev Yaroslavsky , a councilman who has requested public hearings on brutality throughout the city 
Zev Yaroslavsky , a councilman who has requested public hearings on brutality throughout the city  am troubled by the fact that when Zev Yaroslavsky , a councilman who has requested public hearings on brutality throughout the city  learned the person beaten was black , Zev Yaroslavsky , a councilman who has requested public hearings on brutality throughout the city  was not surprised ... 
It is rare that there is an Anglo that gets the crap beat out of the person beaten  with a billy club 
; Yaroslavsky pointed to recent incidents of harassment of black people 
Just last December , businessman and former Laker Jamaal Wilkes was handcuffed during a routine traffic stop 
The police department's subsequent apology to former Laker Jamaal Wilkes  came on the heels of a federal jury award of $ 540,000 to former major league baseball player Joe Morgan , who said Los Angeles police in 1988 had grabbed Los Angeles police in 1988  by the neck , thrown former Laker Jamaal Wilkes  to the ground and cuffed former Laker Jamaal Wilkes  at Los Angeles International Airport when businessman and former Laker Jamaal Wilkes  thought former Laker Jamaal Wilkes  was a drug courier 
