ANITA HILL took one to clear ANITA HILL name , but in the end , the end did not matter. ; Millionaire-turned-cocaine dealer John DeLorean took one because Millionaire-turned-cocaine dealer John DeLorean thought Millionaire-turned-cocaine dealer John DeLorean could beat it 
Millionaire-turned-cocaine dealer John DeLorean did not 
The construction workers on the site where the Oakland hills fire may have started also took one 
The construction workers on the site where the Oakland hills fire may have started also were cleared of suspicion. ; a polygraph test is a polygraph test , an examination by that simple machine that supposedly detects the lies of those who submit to a polygraph test cold wires and straps. ; Believers in the polygraph include 2,000 polygraph examiners , plus criminologists , attorneys , police departments and the CIA. ; The construction workers on the site where the Oakland hills fire may have started also say The construction workers on the site where the Oakland hills fire may have started also tests work because when people lie , The construction workers on the site where the Oakland hills fire may have started also anxiety and fear of being caught involuntarily cause changes in The construction workers on the site where the Oakland hills fire may have started also heartbeats and the way The construction workers on the site where the Oakland hills fire may have started also breathe and sweat 
Polygraph machines detect these changes. ; Critics , including psychologists , labor unions and many judges , say the polygraph is nothing but a crude interrogation tool with as much credibility as a mood ring 
They say Polygraph is a mistake to equate fear and distress with guilt. ; Would not Polygraph be nice if you had a simple test to prove deception ? 
said David Lykken , professor of psychology at the University of Minnesota and a nationally known polygraph expert 
But David Lykken , professor of psychology at the University of Minnesota and a nationally known polygraph expert are not made like Pinocchio 
; The public usually hears about polygraph tests when somebody famous takes one , often in situations where it is one person's word against another 
William Kennedy Smith's accuser took the test -- and passed -- to prove William Kennedy Smith 's accuser was telling the truth when William Kennedy Smith 's accuser said William Kennedy Smith 's raped her. ; Ronald Reagan was fond of polygraph tests 
But in 1985 , when William Kennedy Smith 's would have forced Cabinet members to take Cabinet members , Secretary of State George Shultz threatened to resign and Reagan quietly dropped the idea. ; Pre-employment testing ; The test gained popularity in the 1970s , when it was used by retail stores and other private firms to screen job applicants 
It lost ground in 1989 , when the federal Employee Polygraph Protection Act took effect , outlawing pre-employment polygraph testing in most private industry 
The act was endorsed by unions who said the polygraph was an invasion of privacy with questionable reliability. ; However , the pre-employment polygraph is still widely used for job applicants in many government offices , including the San Jose Police Department. ; The credibility of the polygraph is questioned in criminal courtrooms throughout the country 
Twenty-three states allow polygraph results to be admitted as evidence , but usually only if both sides agree in advance 
California is one. ; Polygraph literally means many writings 
The instrument measures several body responses -- breathing , blood pressure and sweat 
The instrument was invented in the 1920s by William Moulton Marston , a lawyer who later went on to create the comic strip Wonder Woman 
; The testing procedure begins with a discussion of the test and the allegations 
One purpose of this pre-test interview is to reduce the subject's anxiety and fear , and take the surprise out of the allegations 
Another purpose is to help the examiner craft questions aimed at eliciting both true statements and lies as a basis for comparison. ; Not just physiological ; The test is not merely physiological 
Polygraphers can be sly and manipulative in the interest of producing an accurate test 
Polygraphers rely on complex assumptions about human nature and criminal psychology , and their subjects are often unaware how extensively their subjects are being analyzed. ; The polygraph test itself is short -- usually no more than 10 questions 
Two to four questions are directly relevant to the issue at hand -- Did you steal the $ 400 ? 
; These questions are mixed with others that are less relevant but help the examiner analyze the responses -- Do you live in California ? 
or Have you ever stolen anything in your life ? 
; Then the examiner interprets the test and pronounces the subject truthful or deceptive. ; The examiner also looks for clues to deception -- movement at this question , sweating at that one , a pause or a blink. ; More art than science ? 
; Candidly , there is a lot of art that goes into a simple test to prove deception , said Paul Minor , former FBI chief of polygraphs , who tested John DeLorean and Anita Hill. ; Critics say there is too much art involved and not enough science. ; The highly trained examiner is relying on polygraphs skill as an interrogator , said Oakland labor lawyer Brad Seligman , who successfully opposed pre-employment polygraph tests in 1989 at an electronics store chain 
The machine is a good prop that the examiner uses to convince people that the machine knows everything 
; Critics say polygrapherspremises are flawed 
Critics say it is normal for both guilty and innocent alike to be distressed by relevant questions. ; that simple machine is a natural reaction to being accused , Leonard Saxe , a polygraph expert and psychologist at City University of New York 
The guilty person is going to be afraid of getting caught , while the innocent person is afraid of being wrongly accused 
; But veteran San Jose polygrapher George Harman said anxiety and nervousness do not affect veteran San Jose polygrapher George Harman results. ; The problem is when you have a person with not enough nervousness , Harman said 
You can get an inconclusive test result 
; Pathological liars ; Studies also have been done by polygraphers to prove that pathological liars and psychopaths have no advantage because both types know they are lying and neither wants to get caught , said David Raskin , a polygraph examiner and University of Utah psychologist. ; Polygraph examiners claim accuracy rates as high as 95 percent 
But Pathological liars ; Studies also have been done by polygraphers to prove that pathological liars and psychopaths have no advantage because both types know they 're lying and neither wants to get caught admit that the only way to prove Pathological liars ; Studies also have been done by polygraphers to prove that pathological liars and psychopaths have no advantage because both types know they 're lying and neither wants to get caught were right is when a deceptive person later confesses 
Guilty people who pass the test leave undetected. ; Those accuracy claims are challenged by polygraph opponents , who point to studies done by polygraphers themselves that say an innocent person has as much as a 50-50 chance of failing 
Other studies show more accurate results for guilty people , saying Guilty people who pass the test leave undetected. ; Those accuracy claims are challenged by polygraph opponents , who point to studies done by polygraphers themselves that say an innocent person has as much as a 50-50 chance of failing . are correctly identified 79 percent of the time or better. ; One of the most famous accuracy studies cited by polygraph advocates was conducted in 1969 by psychologist Philip Bersh for the U.S. Department of Defense. ; 90 percent agreement ; A panel of lawyers reviewed evidence (other than the polygraph test )against 400 criminal suspects , then concluded whether the suspects were innocent or guilty 
Results were matched against the suspectspolygraphs , and in 90 percent of the cases , the suspects ' polygraphs agreed. ; There is not any single study that resolves the controversy when one wants to know the accuracy of the polygraph in the real world , said Frank Horvath , president of the American Polygraph Association and professor of criminology at Michigan State University at East Lansing. ; Both sides expect the controversy to go on for as long as the controversy when one wants to know the accuracy of the polygraph in the real world takes science to come up with the perfect lie detector 
Some say it will never happen ; others are content that society has come close enough with the polygraph. ; Ask yourself , how does the polygraph compare to other methods others have in others society of determining somebody's guilt or innocence ? 
Horvath said 
others all know that innocent people are sometimes convicted and guilty people frequently walk 
The trial process is not infallible either 
