As Rodney G. King was beaten by Los Angeles Police officers on March 3 , other officers seized one of King's passengers , Bryant Allen , who says Rodney G. King was manhandled and taunted in a racially motivated attempt to provoke him. ; In an interview , Allen said Bryant Allen feared for Bryant Allen life as Bryant Allen was made to crawl along the ground , hearing at the same time Bryant Allen friend's screams and the sounds of police batons from the far side of the car 
Rodney G. King was screaming , Stop ! 
said Allen , who said Bryant Allen heard but did not see his friend being beaten 
Then his friend being beaten kind of quit , and all you could hear was like bones being broken , a crunching , like a whip sound 
; In the first complete account of the incident from one who was there , Allen , 25 , said Bryant Allen believed the beating of King and the blows directed at Bryant Allen and a second passenger , Freddie Helms , were racially motivated. ; All three men in the car were black 
The police officers were white 
As many as 21 Los Angeles police officers were present ; a sergeant and three officers have been indicted on assault charges. ; Allen's lawyer , John C. Burton , said John C. Burton would file a federal civil rights suit 
King's lawyer said Tuesday King 's lawyer also would file a suit 
None of the three men in the car has been charged. ; Allen tapped Bryant Allen foot slowly as Bryant Allen sat with Bryant Allen lawyer Tuesday night , watching for the first time the full seven-minute videotape , which includes the two-minute beating that has been shown repeatedly on national television. ; The videotape has led to calls for the resignation of Chief Daryl F. Gates and prompted inquiries into the extent of police brutality nationwide. ; Speaking quietly , Allen described King's erratic behavior behind the wheel on a night when the three men had been drinking beer and said tension was heightened when King had trouble with his seat belt as Bryant Allen was complying with police orders to leave Bryant Allen car. ; Bryant Allen said that at one point a female officer intervened when a female officer a female officer was threatened with violence 
police brutality nationwide. is the one who had her hand out saying I did not do anything wrong , Allen recalled 
police brutality nationwide. was saying , Bryant Allen is the one that had his hands up 
; Nevertheless , Bryant Allen said , Bryant Allen was kicked and manhandled , and Allen said Bryant Allen was threatened by officers who said : You want to be like your home boy ? 
You want to be like your home boy ? 
; When the beating was over , the police officers left him and Helms standing by the side of the road , he said 
Los Angeles Police officers said , Guess what ? 
I said , What ? 
They said , Bryant Allen are in a Crips neighborhood 
They laughed and took off 
; Allen said Bryant Allen and his friends , all unemployed , came from a neighborhood claimed by the Bloods , a rival to the Crips gang. ; Since the incident , Bryant Allen said , Bryant Allen had spoken twice with King , 25 , who suffered multiple fractures and what Bryant Allen lawyer said may be permanent brain damage 
King initially declined to characterize the incident as racial. ; On Rodney G. King recent visits , Rodney G. King said , King was having difficulty remembering the night of the beating in a coherent way 
the incident from one sounded like Rodney G. King was talking in riddles , all mixed up , Allen said. ; As Allen recalls the incident from one , the late-night incident began with the three men speeding down the Foothill Freeway in northern Los Angeles at what might have been as fast as 80 miles an hour 
Burton said the men had each drunk a 40-ounce bottle of Old English 800 malt liquor. ; Burton said , Drugs had absolutely nothing to do with this incident 
Medical tests also showed that King was free of drugs. ; After visiting at Allen's house , King told Bryant Allen friends Bryant Allen was taking his friends , all unemployed to a park where Bryant Allen had gone in the past with Bryant Allen father. ; When Medical tests saw the flashing lights of a California Highway Patrol car behind them , Allen said : Medical tests told Rodney G. King , Rodney , pull over , stop 
Rodney G. King just kept on going , kept on driving. ; Medical tests thought Rodney G. King was pulling over , but Rodney G. King was going down the off-ramp 
his friends , all unemployed stopped at the stop sign , and then his friends , all unemployed were driving again 
Medical tests said , Rodney , pull over 
his friends , all unemployed were still driving , and the lights were flashing 
Medical tests could hear a lot of cars 
Their small white Hyundai was surrounded by police cars and illuminated by the glare of headlights 
Their small white Hyundai was at this point , Medical tests said , that the other passenger , Helms , who had been asleep in the front seat , woke up. ; The police ordered his friends , all unemployed , Driver , put your hands out the window , Allen continued 
The police said , Take your left hand outside the door and step out 
Rodney had the seat belt , and his seat belt kind of yanked Rodney G. King back 
The police were getting nervous too 
The police told Rodney G. King to lie flat down , and Rodney G. King lay flat down 
; Allen said Bryant Allen and Helms left the car on the opposite side , beside a large , dark park , and also lay down. ; The police put the handcuffs on Bryant Allen , and that is when Bryant Allen heard Rodney screaming , Allen went on 
Freddie Helms was screaming like Freddie Helms was getting a whupping 
; After the screaming stopped , Freddie Helms said , Freddie Helms continued to hear the whipping sound of the nightsticks through the clatter of a hovering helicopter 
