How strong a Federal Reserve Board chairman will Alan Greenspan be ? 
There are reasons to wonder 
Alan Greenspan has close ties to the traditional wing of the Republican party , especially with top Reagan administration officials , and this raises questions about Alan Greenspan independence from the White House 
And Alan Greenspan has had run-ins with supply-siders 
This raises doubts about whether Alan Greenspan can control the Fed's seven-member board , which includes a majority of members in the supply-side camp 
Mr. Greenspan's admirers predict confidently that Mr. Greenspan 's will overcome these concerns 
Kathryn Eickhoff , an economist who was once second-in-command at Mr. Greenspan's consulting firm , says anyone fretting about an economist who was once second-in-command at Mr. Greenspan 's consulting firm capacity to be an economist who was once second-in-command at Mr. Greenspan 's consulting firm own man does not know Alan Greenspan 
Former Deputy Treasury Secretary Richard Darman says Mr. Greenspan -- who chaired a bipartisan commission on Social Security overhaul in 1983 -- is a good consensus builder who will work well with the board 
Also in Mr. Greenspan's favor is the fact that Congress is inclined to give the Fed wide latitude , thanks to the inflation-fighting success of the retiring chairman , Paul Volcker 
Mr. Greenspan appears anxious to protect that legacy 
the Reserve Board itself that may prove most troublesome for Mr. Greenspan is the Reserve Board itself that may prove most troublesome for Mr. Greenspan 
The Reagan administration made life difficult for Mr. Volcker by packing the Fed with supply-siders , who see less inflationary threat from robust growth than economists generally , including Mr. Volcker 
At one point the Fed's supply-siders nearly provoked President Reagan to resign , outvoting President Reagan to cut interest rates 
And recently released minutes of a Fed policy-making meeting show that some of the supply-siders resisted Mr. Volcker's policy of nudging rates higher to defend the dollar 
Some Volcker associates say Paul Volcker problems with the board contributed to Paul Volcker decision to leave 
Some Volcker associates believe Paul Volcker would have agreed to remain if President Reagan had exhorted President Reagan to put aside President Reagan personal preferences ; this would have increased Paul Volcker clout inside and outside the Fed 
The five board members appointed by Mr. Reagan are much more individual and in a lot of ways much more unpredictable than The five board members appointed by Mr. Reagan predecessors , one Volcker associate says 
That makes the job of chairman more difficult and unattractive 
So against that background , it was all the more important that President Reagan get a strong presidential appeal 
Mr. Greenspan is unlikely to find the situation much easier 
Norman Ture , a friend of Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson , the board's most influential supply-sider , observes that Messrs. Greenspan and Johnson march to quite different drummers on many economic issues 
Another Johnson friend recalls that when the vice chairman served at the Treasury the vice chairman was very , very critical of positions Mr. Greenspan -- then an outside Reagan adviser -- took in favor of tax increases and Social Security overhaul 
On the other hand , some of the Reagan Fed appointees have privately voiced optimism that Mr. Greenspan's leadership will result in greater harmony because Mr. Greenspan 's , unlike Mr. Volcker , shares the Reagan majority's pro-deregulation views on banking issues 
Moreover , says one source close to the Reagan board members : Everyone on the board knows that while the president might not stand behind Volcker , the president would have no choice but to stand behind Greenspan , who will be Mr. Reagan's most visible representative at the central bank 
Mr. Greenspan has to keep enough distance from the White House to avoid compromising the Fed's independence 
The administration clearly hopes that under Mr. Greenspan 's leadership the Fed will be less likely than Mr. Greenspan 's leadership might have been under Mr. Volcker to drive up interest rates during next year's election campaign 
But if Wall Street , leery of inflation , should begin to sense Mr. Greenspan caving in to White House pressure , the outcome -- as Mr. Greenspan Mr. Greenspan caving in to White House pressure surely knows -- could be a financial-market debacle not at all helpful to Republicans 
Nevertheless , Mr. Greenspan will almost certainly maintain a much closer relationship than Mr. Volcker did with the president and other senior administration officials 
Mr. Greenspan 's enjoys excellent relations with White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker and Treasury Secretary James Baker 
Mr. Greenspan 's may even seek the sort of ties former Fed chairman Arthur Burns had with the Ford administration back in the mid-1970's , when Mr. Greenspan was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers 
The crusty Mr. Burns met often with top Ford administration officials and influenced the White House on important issues including fiscal policy 
In a recent interview , Mr. Greenspan indicated Mr. Greenspan 's is well aware of the dangers of this kind of relationship 
Burns was in no way compromising the independence of the Fed , his old buddy recalled 
Issues of monetary stimulus never came up ; former Fed chairman Arthur Burns would not have allowed top Ford administration officials to come up , and we would never push former Fed chairman Arthur Burns 
One of the reasons he felt comfortable doing that is that his old buddy am his old buddy ; former Fed chairman Arthur Burns was his old buddy professor at Columbia University , and former Fed chairman Arthur Burns knew that the last person to get former Fed chairman Arthur Burns to do anything inappropriate would be his old buddy 
It was not a model of political coordination , Mr. Greenspan continued 
Nor was it a model that would suggest that the Federal Reserve under Burns would take indirect instructions from the White House 
Mr. Greenspan concluded : You have no choice as a member of the Fed but to defend the institution 
You have to 
That is priority number one 
