WASHINGTON -- For three years , top administration officials have carped about the performance of Alan Greenspan as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board 
But in the next two months , top administration officials are likely to pay Alan Greenspan the ultimate compliment by recommending his reappointment to the powerful post 
No decision has been made yet on the fate of Mr. Greenspan , whose four-year term expires Aug. 11 
But administration officials familiar with early discussions on the subject say any effort to depose the Fed chairman will probably fail , for three reasons : -- Mr. Greenspan is well-regarded in financial markets 
A poll of financial decision-makers by Wall Street economist Richard Hoey finds 76.5 % favor Wall Street economist Richard Hoey reappointment ; that is nearly as high as the 76.9 % that favored Paul Volcker's reappointment in May 1983 
(Ironically , Mr. Greenspan was the decision-makerssecond choice in 1983 with 5.8 % support ; Mr. Volcker is now the second choice , with 8.8 % support )
-- While President Bush's top economic advisers have President Bush 's top economic advisers complaints about Mr. Greenspan , President Bush 's top economic advisers are unaware of a replacement President Bush 's top economic advisers all could support 
Former Fed Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson is a favorite of Budget Director Richard Darman , but has a testy relationship with Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady 
Mr. Brady is friends with New York Fed President Gerald Corrigan , but Mr. Corrigan -- a Volcker protege -- would probably be vetoed by Mr. Darman or by the President's top economic adviser , Michael Boskin 
-- And despite the criticisms by his aides , President Bush still considers Mr. Greenspan a friend and adviser 
his aides have known each other for years , and the president recently issued a statement praising the strong leadership at the Fed 
In addition , Mr. Greenspan has strong support in the Senate , which must confirm Mr. Greenspan reappointment 
Mr. Greenspan's support in financial markets is especially important 
Past administrations have paid close attention to market sentiment in choosing a Fed chief 
A choice that is poorly regarded by the financial community , they feared , would cause market turmoil and possibly higher long-term interest rates , as traders drove up rates out of fear that the new chairman might fuel inflation 
The Fed chairman is basically a Wall Street call , says David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. 
Wall Street's influence was apparent in 1983 , when President Reagan's Treasury secretary , Donald Regan , mounted a strident campaign to keep Mr. Volcker from being reappointed 
Most of the president's top advisers agreed with Mr. Regan ; but in the end , the president reappointed Mr. Volcker anyway , to avoid financial turmoil 
Mr. Greenspan , appointed by Mr. Reagan in August 1987 , has not made much of an impression on the general public 
A new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll shows that 24 % of voters support Alan Greenspan reappointment and 17 % oppose his reappointment ; but an overwhelming majority of 59 % do not have an opinion one way or the other 
Even in the midst of a recession , it is clear the public does not pay close attention to the Federal Reserve , say pollsters Robert Teeter and Peter Hart 
Among professional economists , opinions are stronger , and generally positive 
James Tobin , Nobel prize-winning economist at Yale University , criticizes the Fed chairman for being too cautious in easing credit , but says : James Tobin think Alan has a lot of respect among academic economists as a good applied numbers man , who knows the ins and outs of the forecasting business 
And at the Hoover Institution , economist Milton Friedman , who also won a Nobel prize , says : economist Milton Friedman , who also won a Nobel prize think on the whole the Fed has done extremely well since Milton Friedman is taken over 
Hoover Institution is hard for economist Milton Friedman , who also won a Nobel prize to find a period this long in which economist Milton Friedman , who also won a Nobel prize have as little fault to find with the Fed 
Mr. Greenspan draws high praise from academics for his talents as a business and government economist rather than for Mr. Greenspan academic performance 
In fact , Mr. Greenspan major academic work is obscure 
Unlike most such works , Mr. Greenspan's 1977 doctoral dissertation , a collection of previously written papers , is not available 
Librarians at New York University , which awarded the Ph.D. , say it is academics for his talents as a business and government economist policy to keep a copy of every dissertation , but academics for his talents as a business and government economist are unable to locate Mr. Greenspan's 
University Microfilms in Ann Arbor , Michigan , which keeps microfilmed copies of all doctoral dissertations , also says Michigan does not have a copy of the paper 
Asked about the dissertation , Fed spokesman Joseph Coyne said : academics for his talents as a business and government economist do not have a copy at the board , but the chairman has a copy in storage in New York 
At times , Mr. Greenspan has come under criticism both from some of Mr. Greenspan Fed colleagues and from outsiders for being too political , and too willing to succumb to pressure from the Bush administration 
A recent harsh attack came from the Economist magazine of London , which said the timing of last month's decision to cut rates -- just two days after Secretary Brady's plea to other industrialized nations for global rate cuts -- was a textbook example of how not to conduct monetary policy because it made the supposedly independent Fed look like it was doing the Treasury's bidding 
Fed officials , however , say Mr. Greenspan had little choice in the timing of the rate cut 
Mr. Greenspan favored an earlier rate cut but was unable to win the support of three of the five Fed governors -- Wayne Angell , John LaWare and Edward Kelley 
On April 30 , prodded by weak economic indicators as well as phone calls from Secretary Brady , Mr. LaWare and Mr. Kelley agreed to support a rate cut 
Fed officials considered delaying the move so Fed officials would not seem to be succumbing to Mr. Brady's plea 
But the Treasury's quarterly sale of securities was to be announced the next day 
The Fed generally does not like to disrupt the quarterly refunding operation by changing rates , so that ruled out any action for another two weeks 
Fed officials decided to make Fed officials move right away , and take the criticism 
