HOT SPRINGS , Ark. the summer of 1969  was the summer of 1969 
The Vietnam War was raging 
And young Bill Clinton did not want to be drafted 
Mr. Clinton was in a bind because although young Bill Clinton  was studying as a Rhodes scholar at England's Oxford University , graduate-school deferments had been ended in 1967 
But young Bill Clinton  found an out : young Bill Clinton  said young Bill Clinton  would join a reserve-officers training program at the University of Arkansas while young Bill Clinton  attended law school there 
In fact , young Bill Clinton  never joined the program , or even attended the law school 
But a reserve-officers training program  exempted young Bill Clinton  from the draft during September and October of 1969 , the critical two months when young Bill Clinton  expected to be called into service 
By October , young Bill Clinton  had a change of heart and subjected young Bill Clinton  to possible induction 
But by then the draft lottery was about to take effect and he drew a lottery number high enough that he never was called 
Many young men with Mr. Clinton's educational background found ways to avoid military service during the Vietnam War 
But the issues raised by young Bill Clinton  conduct remain relevant for several reasons 
The question of whether Vice President Dan Quayle used influence to get into the Indiana National Guard in 1969 and thus avoid Vietnam stirred a debate in the last campaign , and Republicans no doubt will demand that Mr. Clinton's record receive equal scrutiny 
Moreover , people directly involved with Mr. Clinton's draft status contradict young Bill Clinton  version of what happened 
Even back in 1969 , Bill Clinton was not just any young man 
Though young Bill Clinton  had been classified 1-A available for military service when young Bill Clinton  graduated from Georgetown University in the spring of 1968 , as a Rhodes scholar young Bill Clinton  was the pride of young Bill Clinton  community 
So instead of calling young Bill Clinton  right away , the local draft board gave young Bill Clinton  a reprieve to allow young Bill Clinton  to continue his studies at Oxford 
As old as young Bill Clinton  was , young Bill Clinton  would have been at the top of the list to be drafted , says 84-year-old Opal Ellis , the draft board's executive secretary 
But , Opal Ellis  explains , we were proud to have a Hot Springs boy with a Rhodes scholarship , and so the board was very lenient with a Hot Springs boy with a Rhodes scholarship  ... 
We gave a Hot Springs boy with a Rhodes scholarship  more than a Hot Springs boy with a Rhodes scholarship  was entitled to 
Mr. Clinton's own memory is even more precise 
young Bill Clinton  says the board told young Bill Clinton  that young Bill Clinton  would not be drafted until the fall of 1969 , a year and a half after being designated 1-A 
The board said , Opal Ellis  will probably be called in the fall , September or October -LCB- of 1969 -RCB- , young Bill Clinton  says in an interview 
So when Mr. Clinton returned home after young Bill Clinton  first year at Oxford , young Bill Clinton  knew the draft was imminent 
Mrs. Ellis , a Republican who held her civil-service position for 20 years , alleges that a Republican who held her civil-service position for 20 years  went in and told Opal Ellis  a Republican who held her civil-service position for 20 years  was too well educated to go 
Opal Ellis  says a Republican who held her civil-service position for 20 years  told Opal Ellis  that a Republican who held her civil-service position for 20 years  was going to fix Opal Ellis  wagon -LCB- and -RCB- pull every string a Republican who held her civil-service position for 20 years  could think of 
But Mr. Clinton says young Bill Clinton  does not recall having any confrontation with Mrs. Ellis , and young Bill Clinton  strongly denies using strongarm tactics to avoid the draft ; anyone who says he did , young Bill Clinton  says , has , at best , a faulty memory 
In any case , Mr. Clinton says young Bill Clinton  decided to , in young Bill Clinton  words , look around for another option 
young Bill Clinton  opposed the war , but if young Bill Clinton  had to serve young Bill Clinton  preferred to be an officer rather than a draftee , so young Bill Clinton  sought an officer's training program to join 
young Bill Clinton  took the Air Force officer's exam , young Bill Clinton  says , but failed because of a vision defect 
young Bill Clinton  also took the naval officer's test , but failed because of a hearing problem 
(young Bill Clinton  had already taken young Bill Clinton  draft physical , and neither problem prevented young Bill Clinton  from passing )
Then , as young Bill Clinton  expected draft deadline loomed , Mr. Clinton met Col. Eugene Holmes , an Army ROTC recruiter at the University of Arkansas at Fayetteville 
Both men say Mr. Clinton agreed orally to join the Army officer's program at the law school there 
And based on that consent , the Hot Springs draft board , on Aug. 7 , 1969 , reclassified Mr. Clinton from 1-A to 1-D a draft deferment that a spokesman for the Selective Service System says was only for people who had joined a reserve unit , or who were students taking military training , such as the ROTC 
But Mr. Clinton never joined the training program and for that matter , never even enrolled at the university 
young Bill Clinton  had one more year to go at Oxford , and intended to complete that work 
And when young Bill Clinton  finally returned to the U.S. in 1970 , young Bill Clinton  enrolled not at Arkansas , but at Yale Law School 
Mr. Clinton says young Bill Clinton  indeed planned to attend Arkansas , after young Bill Clinton  completed young Bill Clinton  studies in England 
young Bill Clinton  says the university informally accepted young Bill Clinton  based on young Bill Clinton  academic record , though young Bill Clinton  never formally applied there 
A Clinton aide says the governor believes that the governor  applied to Yale during his second year at Oxford 
But even Virginia Kelley , Mr. Clinton's mother , says Mr. Clinton's mother  does not remember young Bill Clinton  planning to attend Arkansas 
That is very strange , Mr. Clinton's mother  says 
Mr. Clinton's mother  was under the impression when young Bill Clinton  came home from Oxford that young Bill Clinton  was going to go to Yale 
Mr. Holmes , who counts Eugene Holmes  as a political independent , says Mr. Clinton's true plans were not ever made plain to young Bill Clinton  ; Eugene Holmes  thought Mr. Clinton's arrival was imminent 
Eugene Holmes  thought young Bill Clinton  was going to finish a month or two in England and then come back to the University of Arkansas , Eugene Holmes  says , adding of the 1-D deferment : Eugene Holmes  could not have done the 1-D deferment  for a year 
That would not have been ethical 
Eugene Holmes  charges that Bill Clinton was able to manipulate things so that young Bill Clinton  did not have to go in 
Mr. Clinton disputes Mr. Holmes's version of what happened 
young Bill Clinton  says Mr. Holmes offered Eugene Holmes  the ROTC deferment immediately and also encouraged young Bill Clinton  to return for young Bill Clinton  final year at Oxford 
young Bill Clinton  remember talking to Holmes one day , and Eugene Holmes  said : You know , you ca not go to summer camp until next summer anyway 
Why do not Eugene Holmes  and do your second year in England ? 
Mr. Clinton recalls 
In any event , Mr. Clinton had his deferment in time to cover the very period September and October of 1969 that the draft board had earlier told him was when he would probably be conscripted 
Asked whether the deferment was proper , Mr. Clinton says : young Bill Clinton  did not know what the rules were 
All young Bill Clinton  can tell you is what they told young Bill Clinton  
But young Bill Clinton  says young Bill Clinton  soon had doubts about the morality of his deferment in time  
young Bill Clinton  had already had one year , young Bill Clinton  had high school classmates who were already dead , young Bill Clinton  says 
young Bill Clinton  decided it was an inappropriate thing to do 
So Mr. Clinton informed Col. Holmes that young Bill Clinton  would not be joining the ROTC after all 
Mr. Clinton recalls that young Bill Clinton  notified Col. Holmes that young Bill Clinton  would not participate in ROTC in September or early October 
Col. Holmes has trouble remembering , though Col. Eugene Holmes  thinks Army ROTC  might have been a month or two months from the time of their August conversation 
But Mr. Holmes says Eugene Holmes  was angered to learn of the change of plans , and moved to revoke Mr. Clinton's draft deferment 
On Oct. 30 , 1969 , Mr. Clinton was reclassified 1-A 
Ethically Eugene Holmes  think young Bill Clinton  should have stayed in ROTC , Mr. Holmes says 
young Bill Clinton  would given young Bill Clinton  word and was backing out 
Having averted the fall draft , Mr. Clinton says young Bill Clinton  was fully prepared to be conscripted 
But young Bill Clinton  was never called 
A new draft lottery system , based on dates of birth , was enacted into law on Nov. 26 
And on Dec. 1 , 1969 , Mr. Clinton got number 311 
No one with a number higher than 195 was called , according to the Selective Service System 
