MOSCOW Boris Yeltsin coasted to a comfortable victory in the Russian republic's first presidential election , in a vote that underscored the strong public desire for change and the dwindling influence of the Soviet Communist establishment 
The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics , was widely tipped to win the election in Russia , which , with 150 million of the Soviet Union's 285 million people , is by far the country's largest republic 
But the ease with which The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  was elected in the first round of voting and the poor showing by The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  Communist Party rivals gave The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  a strong mandate for genuine reform that is likely to have repercussions on the national political scene 
In Washington , the White House welcomed Mr. Yeltsin's election , and invited The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  to meet with President Bush next Thursday , a meeting Mr. Yeltsin had sought for months 
Mr. Yeltsin was to be in Washington as a guest of the Senate leadership , but until winning the election The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  had been shunned by the White House 
On The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  last trip to the U.S. in 1989 , Mr. Bush had only dropped in briefly on a meeting Mr. Yeltsin was holding with National Security adviser Brent Scowcroft 
In general , the Bush administration has avoided doing anything to add to Mr. Yeltsin's stature as a rival to Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev , whose strong personal ties to Mr. Bush underlie current U.S.-Soviet relations 
But administration officials said Mr. Yeltsin's democratic election , and The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  new working partnership with Mr. Gorbachev , have changed the situation 
Indeed , many analysts believe Mr.Gorbachev now has no choice but to work with Mr. Yeltsin , The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  erstwhile rival , to transform the Soviet Union at a more rapid pace than the Soviet leader's Communist allies are advocating 
The two men recently put aside The two men  strong personal differences and started cooperating on a new federal structure that would decentralize much political and economic power to the nation's 15 republics 
Mr. Yeltsin's election is a gigantic historic step forward , said Gavriil Popov , the reformist mayor of Moscow 
Mr. Yeltsin's election  will give additional stimulus to that process of cooperation between Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Yeltsin 
Preliminary election results gave Mr. Yeltsin an outright victory with about 60 % of the vote , defying some predictions that a second round of balloting would be needed 
The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  main opponent , former Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov , came in a poor second with between 15 % and 20 % 
One of the biggest surprises was the strong showing by Vladimir Zhirinovsky , who finished third with about 7 % 
Mr. Zhirinovsky , almost unknown a month ago , campaigned hard on a populist , anti-Communist platform 
Vladimir Zhirinovsky  easily defeated the other three candidates , who included a hard-line Communist general , a former interior minister close to Mr. Gorbachev and a worker from the Siberian coal fields 
Much of the campaign turned on the issue of how quickly change should come to Russia , particularly economic reform 
With the exception of Messrs. Yeltsin and Zhirinovsky , all other candidates warned against moving too fast to destroy the decaying socialist system 
Mr. Ryzhkov , in particular , strongly opposed the introduction of private property and said the government should move very gradually to sell off any state assets 
But the Russian public , tired of years of half-measures that have merely reduced their already low living standards , clearly rejected the idea of yet more caution 
years of half-measures that have merely reduced their already low living  remains to be seen if Mr. Yeltsin can live up to The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  campaign promise that the economy will start to turn around within a year or two 
As chairman of the Russian parliament since 1990 , chairman of the Russian parliament since 1990  has introduced much new economic legislation 
But the Russian parliament since 1990  has had little effect , largely because of a crippling deadlock between Russia and Mr. Gorbachev's central authorities that now appears to have ended 
Mr. Yeltsin's aides say The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  is now likely to push for radical economic measures , including large-scale privatization , lower military spending and the introduction of private farming 
But opponents , and even some supporters , say that even such moves may not fill the empty shelves of stores as quickly as Mr. Yeltsin hopes 
Mr. Ryzkhov's main support came from the military , industry and the government bureaucracy 
Despite opponents  considerable powers , opponents  failed to persuade voters to back voters  candidate 
Only the official structures of power supported Ryzhkov , said sociologist Yuri Levada 
A glaring example of the establishment's declining clout came at the Lenin collective farm near the town of Vladimir 
A glaring example of the establishment's declining clout  managers were among the first to nominate Mr. Ryzhkov for president 
But in the voting , a majority of the 1,130 workers ignored the 1,130 workers  bosses and opted for Mr. Yeltsin 
The unofficial Russian information agency said Mr. Ryzhkov was backed by just 18 % of the farm laborers ; 51 % voted for Mr. Yeltsin 
Further indicating the rout of the establishment , two allies of Mr. Yeltsin , Mr. Popov and Anatoly Sobchak , were easily elected mayors of Moscow and Leningrad respectively 
Mr. Yeltsin has said The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  will try to forge a broad coalition for change , one that includes reform-minded members of the Communist Party as well as more radical anti-Communist democrats 
On the campaign trail , The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  sought to present The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  as a responsible , presidential figure who could keep The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  emotions in check 
Seeking to build bridges to The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  former adversaries , The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  even picked an air force colonel and Communist Party member , Alexander Rutskoi , as The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  running mate 
As expected , The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  won strongest support from city dwellers throughout the Russian republic 
The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  captured 90 % of the vote in The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  hometown of Sverdlovsk and more than 70 % in Moscow 
But the total was pushed down by rural dwellers , who are traditionally more conservative 
And the outcome was far less of a landslide than the 89 % support Mr. Yeltsin won in Moscow in 1989 , when The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  ran for the national parliament 
Political analysts say The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  popularity appears to have peaked since The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  gave up The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  stance as the rebel outsider fighting the system and became chairman of the Russian parliament 
The 60-year-old Mr. Yeltsin , who is promising swift moves to establish greater democracy and market economics  was not absolutely dominant , said Andrei Zdravomyslov , president of the Soviet Sociologists Association 
Mr. Levada said some voters may have been irked by the slow pace of practical change in Russia under Mr. Yeltsin's leadership 
People are growing tired of waiting , the sociologist added 
Mr. Yeltsin's more conciliatory stance has made Mr. Yeltsin's more conciliatory stance  easier for Mr. Gorbachev to distance Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev , whose strong personal ties to Mr. Bush underlie current U.S.-Soviet relations  from Communist hardliners , who seemed to have the upper hand only six months ago 
Sergei Parkhomenko , a political analyst for the liberal Independent newspaper , said Sergei Parkhomenko  suspects Mr. Gorbachev actually wanted Mr. Yeltsin to beat Mr. Ryzhkov , a comment echoed by other analysts who hope that the U.S.S.R. is now on the way toward more decisive reforms 
Mr. Gorbachev was careful not to take sides during the campaign , saying only that Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev , whose strong personal ties to Mr. Bush underlie current U.S.-Soviet relations  was prepared to work with any winner , including Mr. Yeltsin 
