WASHINGTON -- Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton's detailed explanation of how he avoided the draft during the Vietnam War still contains some gaps and unanswered questions 
There have been gradations and variations in the Democratic presidential contender's story since last week , when The Wall Street Journal published an article on how the Democratic presidential contender 's escaped the draft during two key months in the fall of 1969 
It is now clear that the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton , like many of Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's peers at that time , worked to obtain a draft deferment during the summer of that year , when Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's felt certain Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's was about to be called up for military service 
Gov. Clinton has said Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's later dropped that deferment because he felt it was morally wrong to keep deferment because he felt it while Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's friends died in combat 
But in a letter Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's wrote at the time , Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's said Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's dropped the deferment to maintain his political viability 
And it appears that Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's did not actually subject Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's to the draft until it became clear that Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's had a reasonable chance of escaping induction altogether 
Here is a closer look at the questions that are raised by his statements : Did Gov. Clinton ever intend to enroll in the Reserve Officer Training Corps program at the University of Arkansas , as he agreed to do at the time he received his deferment ? 
Mr. Clinton never enrolled in either the ROTC or the University of Arkansas , making dubious the circumstances under which Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's received the deferment at such a critical time 
What is more , in a letter to his ROTC recruiter , Mr. Clinton admitted , Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's had no interest in the ROTC program a letter to his ROTC recruiter and concedes that his ROTC recruiter may have deceived the recruiter about his ROTC recruiter attitude 
Mr. Clinton has said on several occasions recently that for a brief period in the summer of 1969 , Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's did intend to join the ROTC and the University of Arkansas , but only after finishing the second year of Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's Rhodes scholarship at Oxford University in England 
Col. Eugene Holmes , director of the ROTC program at the University of Arkansas , says the ROTC program at the University of Arkansas would have been improper for Eugene Holmes to grant a deferment for Mr. Clinton if Eugene Holmes had no intention of joining the ROTC program until a year later 
When Mr. Clinton backed out of Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's agreement to join the ROTC , was Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's intention to subject Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's to the draft ? 
That is what Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's has said in Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's statements and in Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's letter 
But Mr. Clinton did not back out of the agreement until after a statement on Sept. 19 , 1969 , by President Nixon that made his ROTC agreement clear that few new conscripts would be called until December , when a draft lottery system was to begin 
Mr. Clinton has said Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's was unaware of any plans for a lottery system at the time Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's backed out of his ROTC agreement , but the president's comments were widely publicized 
On the surface , Mr. Clinton's ROTC deferment , which lasted 2 1/2 months , enabled Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's to escape almost certain induction and instead put Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's into a lottery system where Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's chances of being called were smaller 
Why did Mr. Clinton wait until Dec. 3 , 1969 , to write to Col. Holmes about Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's harsh views of the draft , the war and the ROTC ? 
The letter provides no answer to that question 
But it was written two days after the lottery numbers were announced 
Mr. Clinton drew an extremely high number , 311 , making it clear that Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's chances of ever being called into service were very small 
After that , Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's may have felt freer to confess Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton 's feelings 
