MOSCOW -- For the first time since the overthrow of the Czar in 1917 , the Soviet Union has been seized by the collective will of the first time since the overthrow of the Czar in 1917 people 
In a dramatic climax to the coup in Moscow , the hard-liners who took power Monday were forced to capitulate yesterday by defiant protesters and a determined Russian Parliament that held firm against tanks and threats 
Boris Yeltsin , the president of the Russian republic , led that resistance from the embattled parliament building in Moscow and seemed to tower over the hard-liners during the tense standoff 
the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin now emerges as easily the most powerful man in the nation 
By rallying the general public and parts of the army against the eight leaders of the coup , Mr. Yeltsin showed that democratic changes ushered in by President Mikhail Gorbachev over the past six years have had an enormous -- and perhaps irreversible -- effect on the U.S.S.R. 
The defeat of the hard-liners is widely expected to speed efforts to transform the Soviet Union into a stronger democracy based on a new federal system of decentralized power and market economics 
The defeat of the hard-liners also provides a unique opportunity for the nation's legitimate leaders to purge the remains of the old totalitarian system 
The failure of the coup marks the Soviet Union's transformation into a kind of modern European society , says Francis Fukuyama , a former State Department official who has written about the meaning of the collapse of communism 
The failure of the coup proves that Gorbachev's revolution has not been just a revolution of elites , that there is been this spontaneous development of a political consensus among Russians 
But while jubilation filled the streets and squares of cities throughout the country , and while columns of armored vehicles retreated from Moscow's center , many people were cautioning that difficult times lie ahead : The hard-liners may have been ejected , many people say , but the vast problems of reviving the moribund Soviet economy and streamlining its central government remain 
Both could take years to accomplish and could usher in new periods of unrest , particularly in Soviet republics eager to exercise autonomy 
There is no stability in the country at the moment , we recognize that fact , said Foreign Minister Alexander Bessmertnykh 
Restoring coherence to the economy and government is the greatest task facing us 
Mr. Gorbachev's future role in bringing about stability is uncertain 
Late last night , Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev returned to Moscow from the Crimea , where Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev was vacationing when the coup occurred and where Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev spent the last three days under house arrest 
On arriving at the Moscow airport , Mr. Gorbachev stepped down the stairs from Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev plane , shook hands with waiting aides and was taken by motorcade to his home 
In a subsequent television broadcast , a tanned and vigorous-looking Mr. Gorbachev called the failure of the coup a great victory for perestroika 
a tanned and vigorous-looking Mr. Gorbachev proclaimed a tanned and vigorous-looking Mr. Gorbachev respect for the Soviet people and , specifically , Mr. Yeltsin and said a tanned and vigorous-looking Mr. Gorbachev had been surrounded by troops during his house arrest 
the Soviet people wanted to break the will of the president and his family , a tanned and vigorous-looking Mr. Gorbachev said 
But the Soviet people lost , the will of the president and his family just did not happen 
Mr. Gorbachev said Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev would describe the details of Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev house arrest at a later time when Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev convenes a broad conference of Soviet leaders 
But the 60-year-old Soviet president may be surprised by the circumstances that greet President today , for the balance of political power in the country has shifted clearly in Mr. Yeltsin's favor 
Thanks to President popular mandate , the feisty Mr. Yeltsin was able to withstand the very forces that deposed Mr. Gorbachev , Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev longtime rival 
As a result , many people in Moscow are starting to talk about Mr. Gorbachev in the past tense , predicting Mr. Gorbachev in the past tense will play a more symbolic than substantive role in the future 
Some even contend that he will stay on only briefly as an interim figure , and then be forced out by public opinion 
Mr. Gorbachev himself helped bring about the coup , these people argue , because Mr. Gorbachev in the past tense elevated most of its ringleaders to high posts in Mr. Gorbachev in the past tense government and kept its ringleaders there despite dire warnings from both Mr. Gorbachev in the past tense detractors and supporters 
Gorbachev created the possibilities for such a coup to take place , says Valery Lunin , a chemistry professor at Moscow University and member of the Russian Parliament 
Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev should resign , although perhaps not at once , and allow elections to be held 
Mr. Gorbachev's future now rests largely in Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev own hands 
If Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev acts decisively to punish the leaders of the coup and purge Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev administration of their supporters , Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev could regain some of Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev popularity , which eroded as the economy worsened in recent years 
But any wavering -- something Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev has done often -- could relegate Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev to a minor role 
Whatever Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev does , the Soviet Union seems headed for a period of fundamental change that could have a major impact on the way the Soviet Union deals with the outside world 
Mr. Yeltsin , 60 , is expected to press relentlessly for the Kremlin to relinquish most of the Kremlin administrative powers to the increasingly assertive republics 
For the nation as a whole , that could create considerable upheaval as newly sovereign republics attempt to build a federal system from the bottom up 
For the West , the problem of balancing relations with the Kremlin and with individual Soviet republics is likely to worsen 
Mr. Yeltsin the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin , who has sought a greater voice in international affairs , clearly relished the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin contacts with world leaders during the crisis 
the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin told the Russian Parliament Wednesday of his conversations with heads of state ranging from President Bush to France's Francois Mitterrand and British Prime Minister John Major , proclaiming proudly that France 's Francois Mitterrand and British Prime Minister John Major all support the Russian leadership 
The 64-hour coup disintegrated with astonishing speed 
After seizing power and deposing Mr. Gorbachev at 4 a.m. Monday , the eight-man committee headed by Vice President Gennady Yanayev and including the Soviet prime minister , the defense minister , the interior minister and the KGB chief , soon found the tables turning 
By Tuesday the regime was under fierce verbal attack not just from Mr. Yeltsin , but from tens of thousands of Soviet protesters , the leaders of many republics , and the governments of virtually every country in the world 
The loyalty of the army was being sorely tested ; a handful of divisions switched sides to protect the Russian leadership in the Russian leadership parliament building 
Even hard-liners who had been expected to support the junta condemned the junta for what Even hard-liners who had been expected to support the junta called the junta illegal actions 
Tuesday night , hundreds of unarmed volunteers stood outside the white parliament building on the Moskva river , nervous about rumors of an imminent armed assault 
Tuesday night never came 
At least three civilians were killed in a brief clash around midnight , when a column of six light tanks stormed a barricade near the parliament 
But the troops quickly backed off , and the rest of the night was quiet 
The Russian Parliament convened for an emergency session Wednesday , and after three hours of debate , Mr. Yeltsin suddenly announced that the coup leaders were heading to the airport for an unknown destination 
Amid growing excitement , the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin ordered the eight coup leaders to be stopped 
Around the same time , the hundreds of tanks and armored cars positioned around the Soviet capital started to withdraw 
Russian officials said top Defense Ministry and general staff brass had issued the order after a brief meeting 
Within hours , a delegation of two Russian republic officials and four Gorbachev aides flew to the Crimea to meet with the Soviet president 
Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev had been held incommunicado since the beginning of the coup , guarded by 32 KGB officers with machine guns in Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev spacious yellow dacha in Foros , at the southern tip of the peninsula 
The hard-line regime had justified its takeover by saying that Mr. Gorbachev was incapacitated by poor health 
The officials quickly discovered otherwise 
Arkady Volsky , a Gorbachev aide , declared the health problems a gross invention 
Arkady Volsky also reported that the coup had taken place after the eight-man committee had tried and failed to pressure Mr. Gorbachev into signing a statement imposing a state of emergency on the nation 
By 8 p.m. , the coup was officially over and Mr. Gorbachev announced Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev was in full control of the situation and -LCB- had -RCB- restored contact with the country , broken off as a result of the adventurist actions of a group of state officials 
After telephone conversations with leaders of five of the 15 Soviet republics and with President Bush , Mr. Gorbachev headed for Moscow from the Crimea 
Even before the coup ended , the nation started returning to normal 
Soviet television , which had been broadcasting a diet of classical music and black-and-white patriotic movies throughout the previous two days , suddenly switched to showing the Russian Parliament session 
Russian radio resumed a diet of classical music broadcasts , and all restrictions on the media were lifted 
In Lithuania , Estonia and Latvia , Soviet troops retreated from television and radio stations Soviet troops occupied earlier in the week 
The situation in the Baltic states remained tense , however : According to news wire reports , gunfire was reported in Vilnius , Lithuania , where one person was shot dead , and a Latvian died from injuries received when the Soviets this week took over the radio station where he worked 
Some U.S. analysts are predicting that the coup and the forces the -LCB- coup -RCB- has unleashed have dramatically increased the chances that the Baltic states will win their independence 
During the coup , Estonia and Latvia unilaterally declared Some U.S. analysts independence , a move Lithuania took last year but which Soviet troops thwarted 
The Soviet federal prosecutor's office , meanwhile , announced that The Soviet federal prosecutor 's office had started criminal proceedings against the eight coup leaders 
At one point early yesterday , there were reports that four of the eight had flown to Mr. Gorbachev's vacation home in the Crimea to make a personal appeal to Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev 
But this could not be confirmed 
Last night , Reuter reported that Alexander Rutskoi , the vice president of the Russian republic , said one plotter , Vladimir Kryuchkov , chairman of the KGB , had been arrested and would be tried 
The whereabouts of the other seven leaders of the coup was not immediately known 
As news of the rapid developments spread , hundreds of jubilant Russians braved the rain and streamed toward the parliament building , which was bedecked in the Russian white , blue and red national tricolor 
hundreds of jubilant Russians can say that today is the last day of Soviet Communism , and it is a rainy one , one parliament deputy , Yevgeny Ambartsumov , shouted down to the crowd from a first-floor balcony 
Yeltsin , Yeltsin , the crowd shouted back 
But some were already looking to the future , and sounding more cautious 
A 70-year nightmare does not end that quickly , said Nikolai Medvedev , a member of the national parliament 
As the future takes shape for the Soviet Union , one thing is certain : U.S. relations with the country will never be the same 
Over the last three days , Mr. Bush became a vocal partner of Mr. Yeltsin's in the effort to oust the Communist hardliners who launched the coup 
The U.S. now seems to be moving inexorably toward recognizing the charismatic Russian leader as the rising force in the Soviet Union 
Mr. Bush , who has struggled for two years to balance relations between his friend Mr. Gorbachev and the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin , confirmed that relations with Mr. Yeltsin will now be different 
Mr. Gorbachev and the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin have taken a quantum leap forward now by this man's displayed courage and by easily the most powerful man in the nation commitment to democracy , President Bush said at a press conference 
By moving closer to Mr. Yeltsin , the U.S. inevitably will also be moving closer to the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin vision for the Soviet Union , which sees the U.S.S.R. as a political umbrella but Russia and the other Soviet republics with vastly expanded freedoms and power ; some republics , particularly the Baltic states , would acquire Mr. Gorbachev and the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin complete independence from Moscow 
The triumph of Mr. Yeltsin is also likely to give new impetus to proposals for truly radical shock therapy for the Soviet economy , which Mr. Gorbachev avoided 
But a new relationship with Mr. Yeltsin does not mean Mr. Bush will abandon President Bush friendship with Mr. Gorbachev 
In fact , Mr. Gorbachev and the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin personal bond was evident yesterday when Mr. Bush spoke with the Soviet leader by phone 
Mr. Bush was in President Bush boat in the waters off President Bush vacation home in Maine when Mr. Gorbachev finally was able to return the repeated calls Mr. Bush had made during the coup 
Mr. Bush went ashore and took the call in the bedroom of President Bush home , with Barbara Bush at President Bush side 
Later , President Bush told aides the conversation was an emotional one in which Mr. Gorbachev was effusive in his thanks for American support during the unrest 
The personal thing kicked in , says one administration official 
The personal thing was emotional for both of his aides 
Later , an obviously relieved Mr. Bush declared that freedom and democracy have prevailed 
And an obviously relieved Mr. Bush insisted that there is not any Gorbachev versus Yeltsin battle 
Moreover , it is not just Mr. Bush who still has a strong link to Mr. Gorbachev 
If anything , West European leaders have been even more committed to Mr. Gorbachev 
West European leaders worry about any push for radical Soviet changes that might produce chaos and instability on West European leaders eastern borders -- and a possible halt to the withdrawal of Soviet troops from German soil 
That means that an American drift closer to Mr. Yeltsin is not risk-free 
an American drift could produce strains and differences in approach between Washington and an American drift European allies if the drift is too pronounced 
Still , there probably is not any way for Mr. Bush to avoid moving closer to the policies and tactics Mr. Yeltsin espouses 
Boris Yeltsin's actions during this coup attempt -- the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin courage and the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin ability to exercise charismatic leadership -- offer the greatest possible hope of some leadership for the future , said Sen. Richard Lugar yesterday 
Sen. Richard own view is that , by and large , Gorbachev is a spent force 
As it became apparent that the coup was falling apart , some of those in the Soviet Union who had supported the -LCB- coup -RCB- rushed for cover 
Prime Minister Valentin Pavlov , a member of the eight-man committee , was said by Valentin Pavlov deputy to have agreed to take part in the coup because Valentin Pavlov had been misled by the information on the state of health of the Soviet president 
Senior officials of the Soviet Communist Party , which is believed to have played a supporting role in the takeover , quickly distanced Senior officials of the Soviet Communist Party , which is believed to have played a supporting role in the takeover from the coup leaders and declared the action to have been unlawful 
Sensing that reprisals could be in the air , Senior officials of the Soviet Communist Party , which is believed to have played a supporting role in the takeover also warned against jumping to hasty conclusions about who is guilty 
Some forces will probably try to use the situation to strike a blow at the Soviet Communist Party , said Sergei Kalashnikov , a nervous secretary of the party's central committee 
Sergei Kalashnikov said the coup leaders should not be described as a junta , but acknowledged that the eight coup leaders had blundered in a difficult situation 
In fact , both sympathizers and opponents of the coup were united in a belief that the whole affair had been handled with extraordinary clumsiness 
The emergency committee clearly failed to anticipate the fierce reaction from Mr. Yeltsin and the general public 
And once The emergency committee came , The emergency committee seemed at a loss as to how to deal with The emergency committee and lacked the nerve to carry out a bloody assault on the Russian Parliament , the focus of protest 
Mr. Yeltsin and the general public must admit that mistakes by the junta let Mr. Yeltsin and the general public gather people and continue disseminating information , said Gleb Yakunin , a Russian Orthodox priest and reform-minded member of the Russian Parliament 
The coup leaders also alienated some potential hard-line allies by saying the eight coup leaders planned to continue with Mr. Gorbachev's policies 
The committee was created because of the catastrophic situation in the country caused by Gorbachev's policies , said Col. Viktor Alksnis , a critic of the Soviet president and leader of the Soyuz parliamentary group 
But Yanayev publicly praised Gorbachev 
If Gennady Yanayev was so good , where was the need to get rid of Gennady Yanayev ? 
According to several sources , Marshal Dmitri Yazov , the defense minister and a member of the eight-man committee , may have played an important role in bringing about the coup's collapse 
Defense Minister Dmitri Yazov appears to have had major reservations about ordering troops to attack the parliament building 
It seems to Konstantin Kobets , the head of the Russian defense committee who is well connected with the army 's general staff that Yazov was just sucked into a political game 
Defense Minister Dmitri Yazov did not want bloodshed , said Konstantin Kobets , the head of the Russian defense committee who is well connected with the army's general staff 
The future of the entire army now seems certain to become a serious point of contention as Mr. Yeltsin , Mr. Gorbachev and leaders of the other republics move to build a new federal structure 
Until the failed coup , there had been a tacit agreement to preserve a single army 
But the events of the past few days have driven home to Mr. Yeltsin and his aides how vulnerable Mr. Yeltsin and his aides are without some defense force of Mr. Yeltsin and his aides own 
Mr. Kobets and other top Russian officials now talk about the need to form a Russian national guard 
And some radicals want Mr. Yeltsin to take another , far more critical look at the entire union treaty the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin , Mr. Gorbachev and two other republican leaders had been expected to sign on Tuesday 
The treaty is designed to transfer some powers from the central government to the republics , and is believed to have precipitated the coup 
Many Russian deputies say Many Russian deputies do not want the treaty to be signed as the entire union treaty stands , says Sergei Belosertsev , a reformist member of the republic's legislature 
The latest events show how much still has to be done , including the clauses on the army 
Yeltsin will be wiser after the -LCB- coup -RCB- 
the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin was in too much of a hurry before 
Whatever the fate of the union treaty , Mr. Yeltsin is already confident about one of its key economic clauses 
the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin told the Russian Parliament that if the treaty had been signed , President Gorbachev would have immediately handed over jurisdiction of all factories in Russia to the republic 
As a determined Russian Parliament that held firm against tanks and threats turned out , Mr. Yeltsin went ahead and ordered the transfer the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin 
the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin also stole a march on the Soviet president by firing the head of state-run TV , a notorious hard-liner 
For many Russians , though , yesterday was a time to celebrate , not to worry about the future 
As barricades began to come down , the libations came out 
Stepan Kisilyov am drunk , said Stepan Kisilyov , deputy editor of the reformist weekly , Moscow News , which was banned during the coup 
Speaking over the phone in the early hours of Thursday morning , Stepan Kisilyov added : The whole editorial board has been drinking cognac all night 
We won -RSB- We won -RSB- -- THE AUGUST COUP MONDAY , AUG. 19 -- Around dawn in Moscow , an eight-member State Committee for the State of Emergency , headed by Vice President Gennady Yanayev , says dawn in Moscow , an eight-member has taken over all power in the Soviet Union 
THE AUGUST COUP MONDAY Says that Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev has been replaced because of health reasons 
The publication of major independent newspapers is suspended 
-- Troops move into Moscow , and later seize radio and television stations in the Baltic republics 
-- Thousands of demonstrators assemble around the Russian republic's parliament , where Russian President Boris Yeltsin remains defiant of the coup 
-- Mr. Yeltsin climbs atop a tank outside parliament and urges a general strike to protest the coup 
the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin warns that clouds of terror and dictatorship are gathering over the whole country , and calls for the restoration of power of mr. Gorbachev 
-- On Monday morning in Kennebunkport , Maine , President Bush says the coup is disturbing and appears to be extra-constitutional 
President Bush expresses support for Mr. Gorbachev and says President Bush will follow the events very carefully as they unfold in order to determine the appropriate response 
-- President Bush later issues a statement from Washington stiffening President Bush criticism and condemning the unconstitutional resort to force 
The statement supports Mr. Yeltsin's call for returning power to legally elected leaders and says the U.S. will avoid in every possible way any actions that would lend legitimacy or support to the coup attempt 
TUESDAY , AUG. 20 -- In the morning , Bush says President Bush has recently spoken with Mr. Yeltsin and that President Bush reaffirmed U.S. support for constitutionally chosen Soviet leaders 
Mr. Bush adds that there will be no normal relations with the United States as long as this illegal coup remains in effect 
-- During the day , allied countries halt aid to the Soviet Union 
The European Community freezes action on more than $ 1 billion in technical aid and credit guarantees 
The U.S. Export-Import Bank suspends The U.S. Export-Import Bank new Soviet program , and Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu tells Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu parliament that export credits will be put on hold 
-- In Moscow , Soviet television reports that Prime Minister Valentin Pavlov , a member of the emergency committee , has resigned because of poor health 
Reports also circulate that two other committee members , Defense Minister Dmitri Yazov and KGB chief Vladimir Kryuchkov , have resigned 
-- The Soviet Foreign Ministry says Foreign Minister Alexander Bessmertnykh is ill after returing from vacation 
-- Huge crowds in Moldavia , the Ukraine and Leningrad protest the coup , while coal miners go on strike in several regions 
-- In the evening in Moscow , demonstrators near the Russian republic's parliament clash with Soviet armored vehicles 
Soviet radio reports that at least three people are killed 
WEDNESDAY , AUG. 21 -- Troops begin moving out of Moscow 
Soon the coup leaders are reported to have left the city 
-- Leaders of the Soviet parliament demand the reinstatement of Mr. Gorbachev , and the legislature rescinds the emergency committee's decrees 
-- At 10:30 in the morning EDT , President Bush says President Bush has spoken with Mr. Yeltsin , who said that more and more troops appear to be turning against the coup 
Mr. Bush declines to say that the crisis is over , but says the situation appears somewhat more positive 
-- Shortly after noon , Mr. Bush says President Bush has spoken to Mr. Gorbachev , who tells President Bush that the constitutional authorities are back in power 
Soviet television broadcasts a statement by Mr. Gorbachev declaring that the coup is dead 
Yeltsin's Agenda -- With the unabashedly pro-Western Mr. Yeltsin triumph over the coup plotters , Russian President Boris Yeltsin is in a far stronger position to implement the reform measures for which he has long campaigned 
These measures include : -- Popular Elections to implement a genuine democracy -- Autonomy for the Soviet republics , a far more decentralized government with vast powers transferred from the Communists-dominated Kremlin -- Faster transition to a market economy with guarantees of economic freedoms and rapid privatization of agriculture and industry -- Dismantling of the stultifying central bureaucracy -- Lower military spending and greater leeway for republics to conduct the coup plotters own foreign policy 
