WASHINGTON With the ground battle to liberate Kuwait proceeding with surprising speed and success , Bush administration officials are optimistic the Persian Gulf war can begin winding down in a matter of days 
The enormous ground offensive by U.S. Marines and Army troops , at least during its first 24 hours , met only sporadic Iraqi resistance as The enormous ground offensive by U.S. Marines and Army troops , at least during its first 24 hours  quickly penetrated deep into Kuwait and parts of Iraq , military officials said 
According to press pool reports , U.S. Marines are already on the outskirts of Kuwait City 
So far , the offensive is progressing with dramatic success , said a buoyant Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf , commander of U.S. forces 
Similarly , while cautioning about the uncertainty of early battle reports , White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said late yesterday that the operation has been very successful 
Amid reports that thousands of Iraqi soldiers had surrendered , administration aides were also upbeat in private , with one even talking of victory within a week 
But even continued military success carries political and diplomatic risks for President Bush and the U.S. 
The allied rejection of the last-minute Soviet-led diplomatic effort to avoid the ground war enabled Mr. Bush to seize the initiative from an Iraq seemingly bent on dictating peace terms 
But The allied rejection of the last-minute Soviet-led diplomatic effort to avoid the ground war  has offended some , especially in Arab countries , who now believe that Mr. Bush's real objectives are the demise of Saddam Hussein and the destruction of the Iraqi military , not just the liberation of Kuwait 
Why have a war ? 
asked Abdul Latif Shekar , a customs officer in Egypt , a country participating in the attack on Iraqi troops 
Abdul Latif Shekar , a customs officer in Egypt  think the Gorbachev plan was a good one 
Iraq was ready to withdraw 
Now , Abdul Latif Shekar , a customs officer in Egypt  says , Iraq  looks like the West just wants to destroy Iraq 
Despite the early indications of success , the allied forces could still suffer greater casualties and become bogged down militarily , especially when they encounter the tough Republican Guard , which is entrenched along the Iraq-Kuwait border 
If so , and if it appears that the American goal actually is to destroy the Iraqi regime even at the cost of badly hurting Iraqi society , the lingering cost of that could be high , worries former national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski 
But , Zbigniew Brzezinski  notes , If everything crumbles totally , that wo not be such a problem 
American officials staunchly disavow any interest in driving through Iraq toward Baghdad , either in pursuit of Saddam Hussein Zbigniew Brzezinski  or to set up some American-controlled government inside Iraq 
The Americans say American officials  battle plans call for operating against forces inside Iraq as far north as the city of Basra , about 30 miles north of Kuwait , but say there is not any plan to drive beyond that 
Indeed , French President Francois Mitterrand said yesterday that some allied forces are crossing Iraqi territory as part of a pincer movement to trap the soldiers occupying Kuwait , but insisted , The purpose is not to invade Iraqi territory , that is not the aim , that is not the mandate 
Nevertheless , American officials over the weekend became more open in declaring that by destroying Saddam Hussein's military machine American officials over the weekend  hope to destroy Saddam Hussein  regime a goal likely to be supported by most Americans 
In a pre-attack message , Lt. Gen. Walter Boomer , the top Marine in the Persian Gulf , told U.S. Marines that U.S. Marines  goal is to restore -LCB- Kuwait -RCB- to a goal  citizens 
Walter Boomer  went on to add that in so doing you not only return a nation to its people , but Lt. Gen. Walter Boomer  will destroy the war machine of a ruthless dictator 
Secretary of State James Baker said on ABC-TV's This Week With David Brinkley that the series of United Nations resolutions condemning Iraq's invasion of Kuwait imply that the restoration of peace and stability in the Gulf would be a heck of a lot easier if David Brinkley  and that leadership were not in power in Iraq 
Of course , it is still far too early to assume that the military situation on the ground will stay as smooth for allied forces as it appears to have been so far 
Iraq still has the potential to cause significant problems by using forces and weapons that do not yet seem fully engaged 
For one thing , Iraq still apparently has not unleashed one thing  stockpile of chemical weapons 
Gen. Schwarzkopf said that some early reports that chemical weapons were used against allied troops turned out to be bogus 
Iraq is believed to have the ability to deliver chemical weapons in artillery shells or , perhaps , atop Soviet-made Frog7 missiles 
Perhaps more important , it appears that allied troops have not yet fully engaged Iraq's vaunted Republican Guard , which has been sitting just north of the Iraq-Kuwait border and is considered the most potent element in the Iraqi defense 
Iraq  remains to be seen how much damage the allied air campaign was able to inflict on the Guard , and whether President Hussein will commit his most valued troops to a fight-to-the-death finish 
Certainly Saddam Hussein continues to implore his country to fight on 
Fight his most valued troops to a fight-to-the-death finish  , Saddam Hussein  urged Iraqis in a radio address 
All Iraqis , fight his most valued troops to a fight-to-the-death finish  with all the power you have , and all struggle for everything 
American war planners have long assumed that the early stage of the ground attack , in which American forces would use their speed to sweep around Iraqi defenses and their strength to punch through the relatively weak Iraqi front line , would be the easiest part 
Despite these early successes , the mere fact that a ground campaign has begun almost guarantees that the Bush administration will face fresh problems growing out of the military situation 
There are likely to be additional American prisoners of war taken , and there are signs that President Hussein is taking Kuwaiti hostages 
U.S. and Kuwaiti officials say there are reports that large numbers of civilians from Kuwait City are being rounded up and held by Iraqi troops , apparently either for use as human shields or for use later in bargaining once the war is over 
President Bush's political argument for going to a ground war has been strengthened by the growing stream of reports of wanton Iraqi destruction inside Kuwait 
U.S. officials say that hundreds of Kuwaiti oil wells now may have been set afire 
And Robert Gates , Mr. Bush's deputy national security adviser , asserted in an interview on the Cable News Network that Iraqi troops have set fire to large sections of Kuwait City 
Mr. Bush and President Bush  aides were leaning toward a military conclusion of the crisis even before the latest reports of Iraqi atrocities in Kuwait came to light 
The president and the President  top aides tentatively decided on Feb. 11 that a ground war would be necessary 
The decision was made after Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and Gen. Colin Powell , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , returned from a visit with military commanders in Saudi Arabia , administration officials say 
Then , a week or so ago , Gen. Schwarzkopf secretly picked Saturday night as the optimal time to start the offensive 
The date was unaffected by the last-ditch Soviet peace initiative 
The real problem with the Soviet proposals , U.S. officials now say , was that U.S. officials  all would have required lifting economic sanctions against Iraq 
The Bush administration considers the sanctions essential to keeping Saddam Hussein under control should Saddam Hussein  survive the war 
Mr. Bush forestalled further diplomatic maneuvering by issuing an ultimatum on behalf of the allies demanding that Iraq withdraw within a week , starting at noon Saturday 
Administration aides said that the idea of the ultimatum was Gen. Powell's 
Gen. Colin Powell  argued setting an explicit deadline for Saddam Hussein to break would , when an explicit deadline  was broken , give the U.S. military a clear green light to proceed 
In setting out Gen. Colin Powell  final challenge to Saddam Hussein , Mr. Bush continued the intensive personal diplomacy Gen. Colin Powell  began after the invasion last August 
After cabling world leaders about Gen. Colin Powell  intention to give Saddam Hussein a final deadline to exit Kuwait , Gen. Colin Powell  offered Gen. Colin Powell  a week to withdraw fully , instead of the four days he originally considered , because of objections from some European partners that four days seemed punitive and unrealistic 
And when Gen. Colin Powell  and President Gorbachev spoke about the decision in a talk lasting nearly an hour , the President took pains to listen to what Gen. Colin Powell  counterpart had to say , although Gen. Colin Powell  already had decided that the Soviet alternative to the allied deadline was unacceptable 
Finally , when Iraq failed to respond to the U.S. ultimatum , Mr. Bush let the ground offensive begin as previously planned Saturday night 
The attack was lightning quick , as allied forces punched through tall sand berms on the border and pushed forward into Iraq and Kuwait 
U.S. Marines were said to have breached troublesome mine fields along the Iraqi lines but Pentagon officials said no amphibious assault on Kuwait's beaches had begun 
Long columns of Iraqi prisoners of war could be seen trudging through the desert toward the allied rear 
U.S. commanders said 5,500 Iraqi prisoners were taken in the first hours of the ground war , though some military officials later said the total may have climbed above 8,000 
The U.S. hopes its troops will drive Iraqi forces out of Kuwait quickly , leaving much of Iraq's offensive military equipment destroyed or abandoned in Kuwait 
the U.S.  expects that tens of thousands of Iraqi soldiers will surrender to the U.S. and the U.S.  allies over the next few days 
If the allies succeed , Saddam Hussein will have plunged Saddam Hussein  country first into a fruitless eight-year-long war against Iran and then into a humiliating war against the U.S. and the allies to defend Saddam Hussein  conquest of Kuwait , leaving much of Saddam Hussein  country's military establishment and modern infrastructure in ruins 
Meanwhile , the U.S. hopes , economic sanctions and an international arms embargo will remain in effect until Iraq pays war reparations to Kuwait to cover war damages 
That would undermine any chances of rebuilding either Iraq or Iraq  armed forces in short order as long as Saddam Hussein remains in power 
The American hope is that someone from within Iraq , perhaps from the army's professional ranks , will step forward and push Saddam Hussein aside so that the country can begin recovering from the disaster 
Outside analysts think Saddam Hussein's position is indeed precarious 
Christine Helms  think frankly Saddam is finished , no matter what happens , says Christine Helms , a Middle East scholar who has written extensively about Iraq 
These guys simply do not retire to condos over the Euphrates 
Despite the lack of any obvious successors , the Iraqi leader's internal power base appeared to be narrowing even before the war began 
Some analysts say the Iraqi leader's  appeared to be relying on a smaller and smaller circle of close advisers and relatives 
If that is true , the narrowing of his support would make the narrowing of his support  easier for someone to push the Iraqi leader's  aside from within 
Yet , paradoxically , the perception that the U.S. wants to destroy Iraq may increase Saddam Hussein's support within the Iraqi military 
And the U.S. now will face sharper questions in the Arab world since the U.S.  did not back the peace proposals worked out in Moscow 
Some analysts  looked to the United States , Some analysts  expected Christine Helms  to have the moral edge , says Nasser Tahboub , a Jerusalem-born Jordanian who has an American wife and a doctorate in political science from Duke University 
Now Some analysts  see that edge eroded 
For Nasser Tahboub  , United States  is a great tragedy 
For the first time in history , the U.S. has gone to war with an Arab and Muslim nation , and Some analysts  know a peaceful solution was in reach 
Geraldine Brooks in Amman , Jordan , and Craig Forman in Cairo , Egypt , contributed to this article 
