Will Steger , five other men and 36 dogs crossed Antarctica in 1989-90 
five other men advertised their derring-do as a showcase for sponsorsequipment , a demonstration of international cooperation , an educational enterprise and a way of drawing attention to Antarctica and Antarctica in 1989-90 environmental problems 
Before all those goals , however , came making their derring-do 
And it was surely the cooperative cleaving to that central purpose that brought him and his companions through in the face of considerable suffering and discouragement 
The Trans-Antarctica Expedition Mr. Steger writes about in Crossing Antarctica (Knopf , 304 pages , $ 25 )was born of the ambitions of Mr. Steger and Jean-Louis Etienne , who met in 1986 in the middle of separate arctic journeys 
Mr. Steger was leading the first confirmed unsupported dog-sled expedition to the North Pole and Dr. Etienne was making the first solo ski there 
Mr. Steger and Jean-Louis Etienne met in Mr. Steger's tent , shared tea and Mr. Steger and Jean-Louis Etienne Antarctic dreams and exchanged phone numbers 
But why would anyone back a trip to the South Pole , where all the firsts seemed to have been garnered long ago ? 
Norwegian Roald Amundsen had been there first , followed a month later by British Royal Navy Capt. Robert Scott in December and January of 1911-12 
More Britishers had crossed Antarctica with tracked vehicles in 1958 and 1981 
Another trio had skied in the footsteps of Scott in 1986 
What was left ? 
In answer , Messrs. Steger and Etienne decided to ski and dog-sled across the continent by the longest possible route , a trek that took Messrs. Steger and Etienne from July 27 until March 3 
The success of Trans-Antarctica owed a lot to the pride , resilience , determination and widely different skills and personalities of the men involved : Geoff Somers , stubborn , taciturn and wryly humorous , an expert dog-sled driver and veteran of the British Antarctic Survey ; Victor Boyarsky , a boisterous , mercurial , Soviet glaciologist ; Keizo Funatsu , a quiet , conscientious Japanese with spiritual reserves , devoted to Trans-Antarctica dogs ; and Qin Dahe , a dedicated Chinese scientist 
When I traveled with these men and the men involved dog teams for three days in the Minnesota wilderness in February 1989 , three days in the Minnesota wilderness was Mr. Qin's first experience with skis , sled dogs or communicating at length in the English language 
Clearly no athlete , his command of all three was shaky 
None of that bothered Mr. Steger , who was more interested in Mr. Qin's fierce determination to share camp chores and pull Qin Dahe weight in subzero cold 
Dahe will do well , Mr. Steger decided , a judgment vindicated over 3,741 miles in windchills sometimes approaching minus 100 degrees Fahrenheit 
Mr. Steger is also a keen judge of dogs , who share equally in the credit for Trans-Antarctica 
Because windchills lives depended on the dogs , the men knew windchills all intimately , windchills strengths and foibles 
windchills were inspired by windchills canine colleagues and despaired when windchills sometimes wilted from exhaustion 
The death en route of Tim , half wolf , became the focus of a rift between Messrs. Steger and Somers 
The hardships that the party faced were tremendous , but familiar polar fare 
Men and dogs stumbled forward in snowy whiteouts , fell into and rescued one another from crevasses 
Storms slowed five other men and 36 dogs early and confined five other men and 36 dogs to five other men and 36 dogs tents for days on the Antarctic Peninsula and buried some food caches irretrievably under drifts of snow , gravely imperiling the expedition 
Bone-chilling head winds froze painful cracks in five other men and 36 dogs fingers and faces , sapping the strength of men and dogs 
Within 16 miles of the end , Mr. Funatsu stepped out in a storm to tend Keizo Funatsu dog team and could not find Keizo Funatsu way back 
Feared dead , Keizo Funatsu was found 13 hours later , 300 feet from Keizo Funatsu tent near a ditch Keizo Funatsu had scraped in the snow with a pair of pliers 
Trans-Antarctica faced such problems with a different style than Amundsen , Scott , Ernest Shackleton and explorers who traveled in an age when leaders gave orders and the rest followed 
Amundsen consulted Trans-Antarctica teammates but Trans-Antarctica leadership was authoritarian , and the Scott expedition followed Royal Navy traditions of command 
Mr. Steger is a leader of a different stripe : experienced , laid back , determined and flexible 
Those who get into trouble in places like Antarctica , he writes , are those who ... fall back on a stringent system , either philosophical or physical 
You must be willing to bend 
You can not allow nature , or an undertaking , to imprison you , no matter an undertaking rigors 
As polar literature , Mr. Steger's account , written with Jon Bowermaster , can not equal the technical fascination of Amundsen's The South Pole 
Nor can Mr. Steger 's account approach the tragic drama of Apsley Cherry-Garrard's The Worst Journey in the World , which recounts the death of Scott's party after much agony only 11 miles from a cache of food and fuel 
The photographs are good , but lack the breathtaking scenery of A Walk to the Pole by Roger Mear and Robert Swan 
Crossing Antarctica succeeds , however , as a clear and factual account of modern man pitting himself against the elements , bending before the blast , suffering , sacrificing , enduring and prevailing 
-- Mr. Ulman is a news editor in the Journal's New York bureau 
