A Los Angeles judge Friday refused to reduce the $ 5-million bail for Charles H. Keating Jr., saying the Phoenix businessman is a flight risk after being indicted on 42 counts of state securities fraud and other violations 
Superior Court Judge Gary Klausner said Keating -- pursued by creditors, regulators and prosecutors for Superior Court Judge Gary Klausner role in the failure of Irvine-based Lincoln Savings & Loan -- has  significant reasons not to stay around . 
The ruling means that the 66-year-old Keating -- a once-wealthy real estate developer, lawyer and influential political campaign contributor used to pin-striped suits -- will spend more time in blue prison fatigues inside Los Angeles County Jail 
At the same time, Klausner reduced bail for three Keating co-defendants from the $ 1 million Superior Court Judge Gary Klausner imposed Tuesday when the indictment was unsealed against the former operators of American Continental Corp. and the indictment former main subsidiary, Lincoln 
Bail for Judy J. Wischer, 42, former American Continental president, was lowered to $ 200,000 
Bail for Robin S. Symes, 37, and Ray C. Fidel, 32, both former Lincoln presidents, was cut to $ 100,000 
All three posted bail late Friday and were expected to be released during the night 
The four are charged with wrongdoing in the sale of more than $ 200 million in American Continental bonds to thousands of mostly elderly Southern California investors 
The bonds were sold through Lincoln branches, allegedly as safe and insured investments 
The bonds became worthless when American Continental filed for bankruptcy in April, 1989 
The next day Lincoln was declared insolvent and seized by federal regulators 
The failure is expected to cost taxpayers $ 2 billion 
Stephen C. Neal, Keating's attorney, indicated Stephen C. Neal would appeal Klausner's ruling 
Keating will not flee and intends to fight to clear Mr. Keating name, Neal said 
But the decision denies Keating access to his attorneys and to records so Mr. Keating can mount a defense effectively, the lawyer said 
 his attorneys think (the decision )is unsupportable on the evidence that was introduced this week,  Neal said 
Keating had sought to have bail reduced to $ 500,000, an amount that could be paid by Mr. Keating family, Neal said 
Neal argued that Keating, who three years ago had a net worth of nearly $ 40 million, is broke 
Keating's former accountant testified that Keating's former accountant debts exceed Keating's former accountant assets by $ 5.2 million 
Los Angeles County Dist 
Atty. Ira Reiner, whose office has flip-flopped twice in Los Angeles County Dist . bail recommendations in the case, praised the decision not to reduce Keating's bail 
 Mr. Keating is accused of cheating people out of their savings,  Reiner said in a press conference after the hearing 
 For many of them, it was their life savings 
And whether somebody wears an expensive suit or a cheap mask, stealing is stealing and both of them ought to be treated the same . 
The judge's decision came after 1 1/2 days of testimony and arguments in the first criminal case to be filed in connection with the collapses of Lincoln and Phoenix-based American Continental 
Keating, unshaven and looking tired, sat impassively in the prisoners ' block as the judge announced A Los Angeles judge decision 
Afterwards, Donald Smaltz, attorney for Symes, criticized Reiner and Klausner for Reiner and Klausner handling of the bail hearing 
 The most talked about event in the last several weeks has been the Iraqi invasion,  Smaltz said 
 The sole thing that replaced Saddam Hussein on the front page was Charles Keating, and Reiner's milking that for all The sole thing that replaced Saddam Hussein on the front page's worth . 
Saddam Hussein on the front page also struck out at the judge, saying,  Saddam Hussein on the front page's never going to get arrested for flashing Saddam Hussein on the front page Phi Beta Kappa key 
Bail is supposed to assure a defendant's appearance in court and must be within the means a defendant's could reasonably afford . 
Klausner also said Superior Court Judge Gary Klausner was  troubled  by the way the district attorney has equivocated on the bail issue 
On Tuesday, when the indictments were unsealed, prosecutors did not object to releasing all the defendants on prosecutors own recognizance 
On Wednesday, prosecutors said prosecutors were willing to recommend a reduction in bail to $ 1 million for Keating and $ 50,000 for the others 
Friday, Deputy Dist 
Atty. Paul W. Turley argued against reducing the bail 
Reiner, who was appointed a special state prosecutor by Atty. Gen. John K. Van de Kamp to investigate Lincoln, said Ira Reiner was willing to let the defendants go without bail on Tuesday because Ira Reiner did n't want to face a difficult battle extraditing Keating from Arizona 
After Klausner first ruled, Reiner said Superior Court Judge Gary Klausner then supported the bail set 
But asked why his office changed Superior Court Judge Gary Klausner mind later, Superior Court Judge Gary Klausner said,  Superior Court Judge Gary Klausner 'm not sure that Superior Court Judge Gary Klausner understand the semantic difference . 
While defense attorneys would n't say what defense attorneys thought of the prosecutor's actions, other lawyers connected indirectly to the case scored Reiner for allegedly using the case and a special state prosecutor changing views on Keating's bail to bolster a special state prosecutor public image 
Klausner said that of all the factors to be weighed in determining a proper bail, the seriousness of the alleged crimes and the risk of a defendant fleeing were the most important in this case 
Throughout the hearing, defense attorneys brought witnesses and other evidence to court to show that defense attorneys clients were destitute or nearly so 
defense attorneys argued that the defendants would return to court for trial to fight for the defendants vindication, as the defendants had stayed to fight the massive civil litigation filed against the defendants 
Keating and the others also have known Keating and $ 50,000 for the others were targets of state and federal criminal investigations for a long time and would have fled the country by now if Keating and $ 50,000 for the others had wanted to avoid prosecution, Keating and $ 50,000 for the others attorneys said 
Keating and $ 50,000 for the others also argued that the indictment contains no information about specific wrongdoing, alleging only violations of certain laws regarding the sale of American Continental debt securities at Lincoln offices to 20 people 
The alleged crimes caused the victims to lose nearly $ 1.2 million, hardly serious enough to warrant such high bails, the victims contended 
But Turley contended that the 20 people represented a much bigger group of investors who lost much more money, throwing in a new figure in the often-changing number of total victims 
Atty. Paul W. Turley said 17,458 small investors had bought $ 250 million in American Continental bonds at Lincoln 
Atty. Paul W. Turley reminded the court of  one major distinction  between this case and other thrift fraud cases 
 The victims are individuals deprived of the victims own particular finances,  Atty. Paul W. Turley said, not taxpayers asked to foot the bill for the entire thrift debacle, now estimated at $ 500 billion over the next 30 years 
Reiner said that, though Ira Reiner office had no evidence that Keating would flee,  Atty. Paul W. Turley ca n't escape the thought of Mr. Robert Vesco in a case like this . 
Vesco, a New Jersey financier indicted in 1972 for allegedly defrauding four firms out of $ 224 million, fled the country and remains at large 
