A bystander's videotape that captures Los Angeles police officers repeatedly striking a prone, apparently defenseless man stirred a public furor Tuesday 
Mayor Tom Bradley declared Mayor Tom Bradley  shocked and outraged  by the incident, which was broadcast on national television. ; The FBI and the Los Angeles County district attorney both announced that Los Angeles police officers had opened investigations into the Sunday morning incident 
The Los Angeles Police Department is also investigating 
The homemade videotape, shot early Sunday morning in the Los Angeles community of Lake View Terrace, appears to depict at least a dozen police officers surrounding a man after a man left his car, kicking a man and inflicting more than 30 blows with nightsticks as a man lay on the pavement 
The tape, shot from a nearby balcony, recorded no sound. ; The tape was first shown Monday night by a Los Angeles television station and broadcast throughout the day Tuesday by Cable News Network 
The violent images produced an immediate public outcry. ; At a Los Angeles Police Commission meeting Tuesday afternoon, Chief Daryl Gates called the tape shocking but said Chief Daryl Gates would withhold judgment until the incident had been investigated. ; Bradley was unequivocal in Mayor Tom Bradley response :  This is something at least a dozen police officers can not and will not tolerate,  the Los Angeles mayor said 
 an immediate public outcry.'s now a matter of our identifying and finding witnesses ... 
Chief Daryl Gates assure you that, once that's done, appropriate action will be taken by the department and the police commission . 
; Police officials identified the man as Rodney Glenn King, an ex-convict who lives in Altadena. ; California Highway Patrol officials said King's 1988 white Hyundai was clocked on the freeway at up to 115 mph early Sunday morning 
Los Angeles police officers joined the pursuit when King exited to surface streets, running several red lights, a Highway Patrol spokesman, Sgt. Mike Brey, said. ; Los Angeles Traffic Detective Richard Talkington told the Los Angeles Times that written police reports from officers involved said King ignored several requests to leave the car after Rodney Glenn King was stopped. ; King finally lay down on the ground, prone, at the officers ' orders, Rodney Glenn King said 
One officer approached King to handcuff Rodney Glenn King, and when King attempted to stand up, Officer Laurence Powell put Rodney Glenn King knee on his back to keep him down, Talkington said. ; Talkington said King continued to rise, causing Powell to fall,  and that's when the fight started . 
But the videotape contains no indication that King attempted to hit the officers. ; Three witnesses who live near the site of the incident said Tuesday that King did not fight officers 
