As Rodney G. King was beaten by Los Angeles police officers on March 3, other officers seized one of King's passengers, Bryant Allen, who says Rodney G. King was manhandled and taunted in a racially motivated attempt to provoke him. ; In an interview, Allen said Bryant Allen feared for Bryant Allen life as Bryant Allen was made to crawl along the ground, hearing at the same time Bryant Allen friend's screams and the sounds of police batons from the far side of the car 
 Rodney G. King was screaming, ` Stop ! ' 
said Allen, who said Bryant Allen heard but did not see his friend being beaten 
 Then his friend being beaten kind of quit, and all you could hear was like bones being broken, a crunching, like a whip sound . 
; In the first complete account of the incident from one who was there, Allen, 25, said Bryant Allen believed the beating of King and the blows directed at Bryant Allen and a second passenger, Freddie Helms, were racially motivated. ; All three men in the car were black 
The police officers were white 
As many as 21 Los Angeles police officers were present ; a sergeant and three officers have been indicted on assault charges. ; Allen's lawyer, John C. Burton, said John C. Burton would file a federal civil rights suit 
King's lawyer said Tuesday King's lawyer also would file a suit 
None of the three men in the car has been charged. ; Allen tapped Bryant Allen foot slowly as Bryant Allen sat with Bryant Allen lawyer Tuesday night, watching for the first time the full seven-minute videotape, which includes the two-minute beating that has been shown repeatedly on national television. ; The videotape has led to calls for the resignation of Police Chief Daryl F. Gates and prompted inquiries into the extent of police brutality nationwide. ; Speaking quietly, Allen described King's erratic behavior behind the wheel on a night when the three men had been drinking beer and said tension was heightened when King had trouble with his seat belt as Bryant Allen was complying with police orders to leave Bryant Allen car. ; Female officer intervened ; Bryant Allen said that at one point a female officer intervened when a female officer a female officer was threatened with violence 
 police brutality nationwide.'s the one who had her hand out saying I did n't do anything wrong,  Allen recalled 
police brutality nationwide. was saying, ` Bryant Allen's the one that had his hands up . ' 
; Nevertheless, Bryant Allen said, Bryant Allen was kicked and manhandled and threatened by officers who said :  You want to be like your home boy 
You want to be like your home boy ? 
; Allen said Bryant Allen believed that remarks like  home boy,  along with your home boy physical treatment, were part of an attempt to provoke him. ; Asked why Bryant Allen thought the incident was racial, Bryant Allen added,  Three blacks in a car, all white policemen, the way Three blacks in a car , all white policemen look at officers who said . 
; Since the incident, Bryant Allen said, Bryant Allen had spoken twice with King, who suffered multiple fractures and what Bryant Allen lawyer said may be permanent brain damage 
King initially declined to characterize the incident as racial. ; King ca n't seem to remember ; He and King, who is also 25, have known each other at least since they were 13, Allen said. ; On Rodney G. King recent visits, Rodney G. King said, King was having difficulty remembering the night of the beating in a coherent way 
 the incident from one sounded like Rodney G. King was talking in riddles, all mixed up,  Allen said. ; As Allen recalls the incident from one, the late-night incident began with the three men speeding down the Foothill Freeway in northern Los Angeles at what might have been as fast as 80 mph 
Burton said the men had each drunk a 40-ounce bottle of Olde English 800 malt liquor. ; Burton said,  Drugs had absolutely nothing to do with this incident . 
Medical tests also showed that King was free of drugs. ; After visiting at Allen's house, the young man said, King told his friends Bryant Allen was taking his friends to a park where Bryant Allen had gone in the past with Bryant Allen father. ; When Medical tests saw the flashing lights of a California Highway Patrol car behind his friends, Allen said :  Medical tests told Rodney G. King, ` Rodney, pull over, stop . 
Rodney G. King just kept on going, kept on driving . 
; Rodney G. King said King continued driving on the freeway for about five minutes, with the patrol car behind his friends, during which time Rodney G. King continued to urge Rodney G. King to pull over. ; ` Rodney, stop ' ;  his friends stopped at a red light and took off again 
his friends came to another red light 
Rodney G. King told over. ; ` Rodney , stop ', ` Rodney, stop, ' and over. ; ` Rodney , stop ' finally went to pull over and over. ; ` Rodney , stop ' stopped . 
; his friends small white Hyundai was surrounded by police cars and illuminated by the glare of headlights. ;  The police ordered his friends, ` Driver, put Rodney G. King hands out the window, '  Allen continued 
 Rodney had the seat belt, and his seat belt kind of yanked ` Rodney , stop , ' back 
The police were getting nervous, too 
The police told ` Rodney , stop , ' to lie flat down, and ` Rodney , stop , ' lay flat down . 
; Allen said he and Helms left the car on the opposite side, beside a large, dark park, and also lay down. ;  The police put the handcuffs on Bryant Allen, and that's when Bryant Allen heard Rodney screaming,  Allen went on. ; After the screaming stopped, Bryant Allen said, Bryant Allen continued to hear the whipping sound of the nightsticks through the clatter of a hovering helicopter 
Police officers in Los Angeles use standard-issue PR-24 aluminum nightsticks that are 24 inches long and weigh 27 ounces. ;  They made 27 ounces. crawl a certain way, to scoot 
27 ounces. was flat down 
27 ounces. was definitely frightened 
27 ounces. thought 27 ounces. was going to get shot or something . 
; By that time, 27 ounces. said, King had stopped screaming 
 Bryant Allen just closed Bryant Allen eyes,  Allen said 
 Whatever was happening to 27 ounces., Bryant Allen did n't want to see . 
