The Reagan administration may be willing to relax its opposition to an increase in the minimum wage if Congress agrees to dilute the legislation significantly, Labor Secretary William Brock indicated 
Mr. Brock said in an interview that exemptions from the minimum wage would be necessary for youths who lack entry-level job skills and for small businesses 
Labor Secretary William Brock also said that Congress would have to drop plans to tie future rises in the minimum wage to the average wage for all non-supervisory private workers after 1990 
If Congress favors  those positive components, youths who lack entry-level job skills can sit down and talk about Congress,  the secretary said 
But the administration will remain opposed to any broad minimum-wage boost that results in  massive disemployment  of young people, the secretary added 
This is the first indication that the administration would be willing to bend The Reagan administration staunch resistance to any increase in the minimum wage, which has n't risen for six years 
Earlier this week, during the Senate Labor Committee's first hearing on a bill to boost the minimum wage to $ 4.65 an hour in 1990 from the current $ 3.35, Mr. Brock reiterated Labor Secretary William Brock opposition to an increase 
Labor Secretary William Brock said boosting the level would worsen problems that many poorly educated, unskilled youths face in trying to find work in a more complex job market 
 Labor Secretary William Brock am increasingly convinced that a number of people ... are not only unemployed, but unemployable,  Mr. Brock testified 
 Labor Secretary William Brock do n't want to take a chance that unskilled youths add to that problem  by boosting the minimum wage and thereby pricing young people out of the job market 
In yesterday's interview, the secretary suggested the administration might accept a higher minimum wage, though perhaps smaller than in the pending bill, if Congress makes certain changes in the measure 
The administration has long supported a subminimum wage for youths, along with stressing the need for job-training and education programs 
Mr. Brock's suggestions for modifying the minimum-wage bill are n't likely to receive a warm welcome from congressional advocates for raising the minimum 
congressional advocates say the wage level has lagged far behind the increased cost of living since 1981, seriously eroding low-paid workers ' purchasing power 
Most House Labor Committee members oppose any youth subminimum wage, the small-business exemption has foundered in the past, and wage-indexing must stay in the bill, a staff official for the panel said 
Rep. Augustus Hawkins (D., Calif. -RRB-, chairman of the House Labor panel and co-author of the minimum-wage bill with Sen. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass. -RRB-, chairman of the Senate committee, said that if Mr. Brock will put Labor Secretary William Brock ideas into a bill, the House committee will give a bill a hearing 
Currently, D.'s too early to talk compromise, Mr. Hawkins said 
But an aide to a Republican senator said :  Everybody is aware of the possibility  of a compromise 
 Many people feel that some kind of increase in the minimum wage is inevitable,  an aide to a Republican senator said, so an effort is afoot to see how Congress can  do as little harm ... and as much good as possible,  while boosting the wage level 
Some congressional labor experts said Mr. Brock personally would like to deal on Capitol Hill for a minimum-wage compromise 
One congressional staffer concluded :  Apparently Labor Secretary William Brock's making some progress  within the Reagan administration 
