Ivan Boesky may have been the most feared man on Wall Street in January 1985, but THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky jumped during a Friday morning staff meeting when THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky secretary interrupted to say,  Mike's on the phone . 
Everyone in the room knew that  Mike  was Michael Milken, the junk-bond impresario at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.'s Beverly Hills office 
the only person who always got through to Boesky was the only person who always got through to Boesky 
Mr. Boesky put THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky fingers to THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky lips and looked around the table, ordering silence 
Then THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky picked up the phone 
There were no pleasantries 
Mr. Boesky himself said little, mostly indicating agreement with whatever Mr. Milken was saying 
When Mr. Boesky himself hung up, his eyes were gleaming with excitement 
 We 're putting all engines on max,  Mr. Boesky exclaimed to his assembled traders 
THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky ordered THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky staff to buy as much stock of Diamond Shamrock as possible, while selling short Occidental Petroleum, betting that Diamond Shamrock would rise in price and Occidental would fall 
The Boesky staff was baffled 
Neither stock had been on their research or trading lists that morning 
What had Mr. Milken told Mr. Boesky 
In fact, the night before, Drexel Burnham Lambert's West Coast office had been told confidentially that Occidental Petroleum Corp. and Diamond Shamrock planned to merge in a stock swap that would probably cause Diamond Shamrock's stock price to rise and Occidental's to fall 
Since Drexel was being retained by Occidental, Drexel's traders were barred by law and firm rules from trading in the stock 
But that did n't stop Mr. Milken, a man so powerful that THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken seemed omniscient 
Mr. Boesky's staff members were n't the only witnesses to the phone call 
Mr. Milken's top salesman, James Dahl, was sitting next to Mr. Milken at the trading desk when Mr. Milken called Mr. Boesky, and listened as Mr. Milken issued the trading orders and he and Mr. Boesky refined their strategy to capitalize on the still-secret information 
Unknown to Mr. Milken, this was the conversation overheard on Mr. Boesky's end by THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken traders 
And, in fact, under a secret arrangement, Mr. Milken and Mr. Boesky owned the positions 50-50 
Even now, after pleading guilty to six felonies, Mr. Milken insists that THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken never engaged in insider trading 
THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken spokesmen deny the account reported here, which is based on numerous interviews, including eyewitnesses, and review of sworn testimony 
As these previously unreported details show, Diamond Shamrock looks like a brazen example of Mr. Milken's and Mr. Boesky's joint insider trading 
But the scheme proved star-crossed 
The following Monday, Diamond Shamrock's board unexpectedly rejected the deal 
Told of the development, Mr. Milken grabbed the phone, called Mr. Boesky and, as Mr. Dahl again listened, practically screamed :  The deal did n't go through 
We 've got to get out of the position . 
In New York, Mr. Boesky was apoplectic, frantically ordering THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky head trader to unload the positions before the news became public 
But the news was too late ; the ticker soon carried the news of the scotched deal, and every arbitrager was trying to dump Diamond Shamrock 
Over the next day Mr. Boesky's traders struggled to contain the loss 
Mr. Milken screamed at Mr. Boesky for taking too long to get out of the positions 
Mr. Boesky screamed at Mr. Milken for getting Mr. Boesky's traders into the mess 
When the mess was all over, Mr. Milken brooded at THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken desk 
When Mr. Dahl asked what the matter was, Mr. Milken incautiously explained that Milken aide Jim Dahl had a position  off-line  with Mr. Boesky and that the deal's collapse had just cost Mr. Boesky's traders $ 10 million 
Even though the conspirators lost money (insider trading is a crime whether money is made or lost -RRB-, the trading set the stage for Wall Street's most sweeping criminal conspiracy since the passage of the securities laws -- in which crimes of far greater reach than insider trading would become routine 
What follows are major, newly revealed episodes from history's biggest insider trading scandal 
Because most of the major players, including Mr. Milken and Mr. Boesky, ended up striking deals with the government that allowed them to plead guilty to relatively technical and minor-sounding crimes, the true scope of the major players misdeeds has never been publicly documented 
Mr. Milken's crimes alone were massive : systematically robbing clients by trading on clients confidential information for THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken own gain, manipulating securities prices to force deals on which THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken could make huge fees, gouging unsuspecting clients on junk-bond trades, and in at least two cases, taking for himself, his relatives and a few Drexel colleagues securities meant for THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken customers 
This story also shows, for the first time, how the government brought the criminals to justice 
One government agent posed as a blackmailer in order to trick a key member of the insider-trading ring to confess a key member of the insider-trading ring crimes 
It shows how Mr. Milken's lawyers and public relations advisers tried to manipulate potential witnesses and the press, and it reveals that Mr. Milken actually tried to plead guilty a year before THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken finally did so 
But his plea was rejected by prosecutors because his plea came less than an hour after the deadline prosecutors had set 
As their power grew and the volume of their deals skyrocketed, Mr. Milken's band of traders and salesmen headquartered in Beverly Hills took on a superhuman aura -- a tight-knit group working 16-hour days under extreme pressure and loving every minute of their power 
In fact, the ruthless quest for profits set by Mr. Milken in Beverly Hills was debilitating 
Head trader Warren Trepp began smoking four packs of cigarettes a day 
Bruce Newberg started taking blood pressure medicine 
One day Mr. Newberg raved hysterically when Bruce Newberg phone line went dead during an important client call 
It turned out Mr. Newberg had chewed through the cord 
Another employee, Gary Winnick, complained Gary Winnick was developing a brain tumor and other serious ailments, though Gary Winnick remained healthy 
Cary Maultasch developed psychological problems, began seeing a psychiatrist, and asked to be transferred to Drexel's New York office 
Mr. Milken set the tone, badgering traders for not squeezing the most out of a trade, hectoring employees who tried to leave after only 12 hours of work 
When Mr. Dahl told Mr. Milken he was leaving early one day after learning Milken aide Jim Dahl mother had cancer, Mr. Milken's only response was,  When are you going to be back ? 
Even when Mr. Milken Milken aide Jim Dahl briefly keeled over at Mr. Milken he was leaving early one day desk on the trading floor in 1981, his brother and co-worker Lowell came over, viewed the unconscious body, and simply returned to Mr. Milken he was leaving early one day office 
The message was clear : Keep working 
As early as 1982, Mr. Milken was making $ 45 million a year, but THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken aides were struck by how obsessed THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken was with enhancing THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken wealth and power 
Chatting with Mr. Winnick one day, Mr. Milken looked at the view across Century City and West Los Angeles to the coast and asked,  What do Milken aide Jim Dahl think one day 'd cost to buy every building from here to the ocean ? 
Once Mr. Milken discovered how THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken vast network of junk-bond buyers could be harnessed to hostile takeovers, THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken told THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken colleague Mr. Trepp in a tone of grim determination that  junk-bond buyers 're going to tee up GM, Ford and IBM, and make them cringe . 
THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky was the ideal partner in crime 
For despite THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky fearsome reputation, THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky had neither Mr. Milken's market acumen nor THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky access to funds 
Like so many of the clients that accepted Mr. Milken's millions, Mr. Boesky became dependent 
Drexel was supplying most of his financing -- and charging him a whopping 17 % interest 
Mr. Boesky exhibited THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky own eccentricities, especially when the subject was food 
When THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky met stock trader John Mulheren for the first time at a dinner party at Manhattan's elegant Cafe des Artistes, Mr. Boesky was asked for THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky order 
 THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky 'll have every entree,  Mr. Boesky said 
The waiter's pen stopped in midair 
Mr. Boesky repeated,  THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky 'll have every entree . 
When the food arrived, the waiter had to wheel a table next to them 
On the food were that day's eight featured entrees 
Mr. Boesky circled the table, looked them over closely, and took one bite of each 
THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky selected one, and sent the rest back 
Mr. Boesky ran THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky office with an intensity similar to Mr. Milken's 
When Mr. Boesky took a rare day off, THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky harassed THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky employees with calls to ensure that everyone else was still there working 
THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky had remote control television installed in the office so THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky could watch each employee from THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky own control panel 
Mr. Boesky's head of research, Lance Lessman, once complained to Mr. Boesky's son, Billy, that  THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky dad's really been beating up on Lance Lessman . 
 Seriously understand my father,  Billy said in a somber tone 
 my father is stark raving mad . 
When Mr. Milken enlisted Mr. Boesky in THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken schemes, Mr. Boesky was predisposed toward crime 
THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken was already trading illegally on secret information from one of Wall Street's brightest young stars, Martin Siegel 
The Kidder Peabody investment banker seemed to have Kidder Peabody 
But Mr. Siegel came to feel this Marty Siegel could n't live on this Marty Siegel earnings of more than half a million dollars a year 
The Connecticut house had cost $ 750,000 
this Marty Siegel wife needed full-time help with their baby 
Their Manhattan apartment was too small, and what they considered an appropriate one would cost another $ 1 million 
He was haunted, irrationally, by the bankruptcy of his father 
So Mr. Siegel convinced himself that he needed to provide Mr. Boesky with inside information 
The payoff would be cash delivered by an Iranian courier who, Mr. Siegel came to learn, always seemed to skim something off the top 
Otherwise, the payoffs went smoothly 
On two occasions Mr. Siegel met the courier in the lobby of the Plaza Hotel 
After the courier gave the Boesky-dictated password --  red light  -- and Mr. Siegel responded,  green light,  the briefcase containing the cash, neatly tied in Caesars Palace casino ribbons, was handed over 
But in 1985, Mr. Boesky decided THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky did n't want to risk another handoff in the Plaza lobby 
THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky told Mr. Siegel to be at a phone booth on 55th and First Ave. precisely at 9 a.m. 
Mr. Siegel would pick up the receiver and pretend to be making a call 
While this Marty Siegel was on the phone, the courier would stand behind this Marty Siegel as though this Marty Siegel were waiting to make a call 
this Marty Siegel would place a briefcase by Mr. Siegel's left leg, then disappear 
Mr. Siegel arrived at the pay phone early on the appointed date 
To kill time, this Marty Siegel sat down at a table in the window of a coffee shop across the street 
As this Marty Siegel sipped this Marty Siegel coffee, this Marty Siegel spotted someone who had to be the courier : a swarthy man wearing a black peacoat 
Then Mr. Siegel saw someone else 
About a half-block up the street, a half-block up the street spotted another dark-skinned man keeping an eye on the man Mr. Siegel suspected was the courier 
Mr. Siegel started to panic 
What was going on 
Suddenly all of Mr. Siegel's fears about Mr. Boesky's reputed ties to the C.I.A. came to the fore 
 They 're going to kill this Marty Siegel,  Mr. Siegel thought 
this Marty Siegel fled 
Mr. Boesky called THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky later that day 
 How did a rare day go ? 
THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky asked 
 Nothing went,  Mr. Siegel answered 
 There was more than one person there . 
 Of course,  said Mr. Boesky 
 There always is 
THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky want to make sure they deliver . 
Mr. Siegel was amazed that Mr. Boesky did n't trust THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky own courier 
Mr. Boesky insisted that Mr. Siegel repeat the exercise at the phone booth 
This time the plan went without a hitch, and Mr. Siegel collected that year's  bonus  of $ 350,000 
But the frightening experience caused Mr. Siegel to pull away from Mr. Boesky, and eventually to stop giving this Marty Siegel inside information 
this Marty Siegel attention was increasingly absorbed by this Marty Siegel efforts to use insider trading profits to prop up a faltering Kidder Peabody 
To this end, this Marty Siegel launched an even broader insider trading scheme with Goldman, Sachs & Co. partner and chief arbitrager Robert Freeman 
While Mr. Freeman would later plead guilty to a single count of insider trading and his defenders would go on to vigorously assert Mr. Freeman innocence and mistreatment by overzealous prosecutors, Messrs. Freeman and Siegel stole information from his defenders firms and his defenders clients to trade illegally on numerous deals 
These included ; Champion International's bid for St. Regis paper ; Kohlberg, Kravis Roberts & Co.'s purchase of Beatrice Cos. ; and T. Boone Pickens's raid on Unocal 
As Mr. Freeman once cynically joked to Mr. Siegel :  Mr. Freeman 've got to hand it to you 
You really know how to trade information . 
MAJOR LEAGUE CRIME For the Milken/Boesky team, insider trading was a mere way station toward bigger goals and bigger crimes 
They were willing, for example, to lose money on their insider trading when a broader goal was sought 
In 1984, when Milken client Stephen Wynn of Golden Nugget Inc. found Milken client Stephen Wynn of Golden Nugget Inc. stuck with a big position in MCA, Mr. Milken simply directed Mr. Boesky to buy MCA shares until THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky had driven up the price sufficiently that Mr. Wynn could sell Milken client Stephen Wynn of Golden Nugget Inc. stake at a profit 
There is no evidence that Mr. Wynn knew of this illegal arrangement 
Mr. Boesky lost money selling THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky own shares, of course 
Mr. Milken now owed Mr. Boesky $ 10 million 
Paying THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken with something so simple as a check was out of the question : something so simple would create a paper trail, and, more important, something so simple would cost Mr. Milken money 
Instead, Mr. Milken would get THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken own junk-bond customers to pay 
THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken directed Mr. Boesky to buy junk bonds from Milken clients, sell the clients that accepted Mr. Milken's millions back to Drexel at inflated prices, generating profits for Mr. Boesky 
Then Drexel would convince other clients to buy the bonds at even higher prices 
Some of the clients were n't smart enough to realize what was happening ; others simply owed Mr. Milken for the many favors he did for others 
In less than six months, Mr. Milken repaid Mr. Boesky more than $ 10 million 
And in doing so, THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken generated further trading profits for THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken own operation 
The double threat of Milken information and Boesky buying power may have reached The double threat of Milken information apogee with the 1985 takeover by Drexel client Maxxam Group of Pacific Lumber 
Pacific Lumber was gearing up to resist, but then Mr. Boesky started buying the company's shares on Mr. Milken's orders 
Mr. Milken, of course, was privy to Maxxam's confidential plans, including the price it would ultimately be willing to pay 
As usual, Mr. Milken shared ownership of Mr. Boesky's positions and promised to cover any possible losses 
Mr. Boesky's SEC filings, of course, made no mention of Mr. Milken's secret interest 
Maxxam raised Drexel client Maxxam Group of Pacific Lumber offer, and, feeling under pressure from two raiders, Pacific Lumber capitulated 
Mr. Milken's scheme netted Drexel more than $ 20 million in fees and generated over $ 1 million in insider trading profits on the stock owned jointly by Messrs. Milken and Boesky 
Pacific Lumber under Maxxam control soon aroused the ire of conservationists by felling tracts of redwood forest to meet redwood forest junk-bond payments 
But Mr. Milken's most lucrative ploy may have been THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken 
Mr. Milken had extracted the warrants (the right to buy Beatrice stock at a low price )from KKR by arguing that THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken needed to offer conservationists to clients as an inducement to buy the Beatrice junk bonds 
Instead, Mr. Milken kept almost all the warrants for Drexel, lodging the bulk of them in his and his family's partnerships 
The warrants eventually proved to be worth an estimated $ 650 million 
Mr. Milken's Beverly Hills colleagues believed Mr. Milken's Beverly Hills colleagues were all sharing in the profits generated by the high-yield department, both in Mr. Milken's Beverly Hills colleagues bonuses and through interests in investment partnerships set up by Mr. Milken 
Mr. Milken refused, however, to give details of the partnerships 
One day, Gary Winnick called Jim Dahl into Gary Winnick office and said,  Gary Winnick 'm going to show you something that will make you sick . 
Mr. Winnick had gotten a master list of the partnerships 
a master list of the partnerships showed that while most Milken deputies had an account, there were more than 40 accounts for Mr. Milken, Milken client Stephen Wynn of Golden Nugget Inc. wife, Milken client Stephen Wynn of Golden Nugget Inc. children and other relatives 
In total, Mr. Milken had created more than 500 investment partnerships 
One of them, named Otter Creek, paid out an astounding total of $ 473.4 million, most of it to Mr. Milken and Milken client Stephen Wynn of Golden Nugget Inc. family members 
And that was just one of the partnerships 
But no amount of money, legal or illegal, seemed to be enough for Mr. Milken 
At the end of 1986, Drexel allocated $ 700 million in bonus payments to Mr. Milken's high-yield department 
Under THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken arrangement with Drexel, Mr. Milken was free to allocate those payments to THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken and THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken colleagues 
Most of THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken employees thought Mr. Milken was generous with hectoring employees who tried to leave after only 12 hours of work 
hectoring employees who tried to leave after only 12 hours of work had no way of knowing that that year, Mr. Milken kept $ 550 million -- nearly 80 % of the total -- for THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken 
Even that was n't enough 
The year before, Mr. Milken felt that Drexel Chief Executive Fred Joseph had cheated Drexel Chief Executive Fred Joseph on a finder's fee 
Mr. Milken agreed that another department also deserved credit, but argued that THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken personal contact with the client had locked up the deal 
Mr. Joseph disagreed and refused to give Mr. Milken the money 
Drexel Chief Executive Fred Joseph thought the matter was over 
But now, a year later, Mr. Milken again complained about the fee 
THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken called Mr. Joseph repeatedly, arguing strenuously for hours about this one fee 
In a year when THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken had just made $ 550 million (not counting the Beatrice warrants and other earnings -RRB-, and when a conservative estimate of THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken net worth and that of his family would be $ 3 billion, Mr. Milken never stopped griping that THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken had been cheated 
The amount in dispute : $ 15,000 
BEFORE THE FALL As THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken careened from triumph to triumph, Mr. Milken seemed to change 
THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken had always eaten lunch on paper plates out among THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken colleagues, but by 1986 THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken was telling caterers to serve THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken on china and THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken often ate alone 
THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken obtained an expensive new toupee, began wearing French-cuffed shirts, bought a half-interest in a Gulfstream jet, hired a bodyguard and began arriving for work in a chauffeured limousine 
Still, by the standards of clients like Mr. Boesky, Mr. Milken was an ascetic 
In the summer of 1986 Mr. Boesky was hardly ever in THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky office 
THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky was often in Europe at THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky place on France's Cote d'Azur 
Other times THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky was at his $ 1.2 million Paris apartment, his London apartment, THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky condo in Hawaii, or in THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky own suite at the Beverly Hills Hotel 
But even Mr. Boesky outdid THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky one Saturday in September 1986 
The Queen Elizabeth II had just left Manhattan on a celebratory  cruise to nowhere  for the bar mitzvah of real estate developer Gerald Guterman's son 
The QE II's entire staff of more than 1,000 had been hired 
Peter Duchin and Peter Duchin orchestra were playing 
Clowns entertained on board 
Suddenly, guests began craning guests necks skyward as a twin-engine helicopter hovered over the ship and landed on a twin-engine helicopter helipad 
With the blades still turning overhead, an elegantly clad Mr. Boesky, dressed in black tie, flashed a smile as THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky disembarked to laughter and applause 
The helicopter was owned by Mr. Boesky's friend Mr. Mulheren, and when the pilot reported to the pilot, Mr. Mulheren was furious 
The next day Mr. Boesky's friend Mr. Mulheren got on the phone to Mr. Boesky 
 Do n't ever use Mr. Boesky's friend Mr. Mulheren helicopter again for a stunt like this,  Mr. Mulheren said 
 Are you out of your mind 
Revolutions are made of this 
People get put in gas ovens . 
Mr. Boesky just chuckled 
 You 've got to admit one thing, John 
When THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky go, THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky go first class . 
The next day, Sept. 17, 1986, Mr. Boesky surrendered to federal authorities and became an undercover agent for the Department of Justice 
WHEN A STRANGER CALLED The call came early one October evening in 1986 
Martin Siegel had left Kidder Peabody for Drexel, and had just returned from this Marty Siegel new office to this Marty Siegel Upper East Side apartment 
 Is this Marty Siegel ? 
a voice on the phone asked 
After identifying a voice on the phone only as Bill, the caller asked,  Did you get the caller letter ? 
 No,  Mr. Siegel replied 
 this Marty Siegel do n't know anything about a letter . 
this Marty Siegel thought this Marty Siegel should just hang up, but something held this Marty Siegel 
 Why do n't you tell this Marty Siegel ? 
Mr. Siegel asked 
Then the voice dropped its bombshell 
 a voice on the phone mean, this Marty Siegel relationship with the Russian . 
Mr. Siegel closed this Marty Siegel eyes, only to see an image of Mr. Boesky -- the Russian 
this Marty Siegel struggled to sound unconcerned, but this Marty Siegel had to cut this off 
 Do n't bother this Marty Siegel anymore 
If you do, this Marty Siegel 'll go to the police . 
 Bill doubt that,  Bill replied sarcastically, and Mr. Siegel hung up 
this Marty Siegel reeled away from this Marty Siegel desk 
 So this is how it all ends,  this Marty Siegel screamed 
When this Marty Siegel wife rushed in moments later, a beautiful wife found a beautiful wife husband slumped over the toilet in the adjoining bathroom, vomiting 
The next day, on the advice of this Marty Siegel lawyer, Lawrence Pedowitz, Mr. Siegel drove to Williams & Connolly's Mr. Litt Connecticut home where Williams & Connolly's Mr. Litt found the letter 
the next day said simply,  the next day know,  and asked for money to keep the writer from turning Mr. Siegel over to the Internal Revenue Service 
The next week, Mr. Siegel got a curious call from Mr. Boesky anxiously seeking a meeting, and then an IRS agent stopped by Mr. Siegel's office while an IRS agent was out 
Mr. Siegel was growing increasingly unnerved 
So at Mr. Siegel's request, Mr. Pedowitz contacted the U.S. Attorney's office 
Mr. Pedowitz summoned Mr. Siegel to Williams & Connolly's Mr. Litt office the next morning 
 The U.S. Attorney knows all about the letter,  Williams & Connolly's Mr. Litt told Mr. Siegel 
 They know all about you and Boesky . 
Mr. Siegel put this Marty Siegel head in this Marty Siegel hands and began to cry 
 this Marty Siegel did this,  this Marty Siegel said 
this Marty Siegel quickly agreed to cooperate with the government, which wanted this Marty Siegel to try to ensnare this Marty Siegel former Kidder Peabody arbitrage colleagues, Richard Wigton and Timothy Tabor 
Investigator Thomas Doonan was assigned to work with Mr. Siegel in an undercover capacity 
The two always met in person, but one day Mr. Doonan called Investigator Thomas Doonan on the phone for the first time 
Mr. Doonan's voice, isolated on the phone, sounded eerily familiar 
Suddenly Mr. Siegel felt a chill 
this Marty Siegel was transported back to an October night, to this Marty Siegel bedroom, where Investigator Thomas Doonan had answered the phone 
 Is this Marty Siegel ? 
the voice had asked, ruining Mr. Siegel's life 
 Did Investigator Thomas Doonan get a voice on the phone letter ? 
Mr. Doonan was  Bill . 
THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken and Milken client Stephen Wynn of Golden Nugget Inc. traders were winding down a busy week in Beverly Hills one Friday afternoon in November 1986 when salesman Terren Peizer shouted,  Oh, Milken client Stephen Wynn of Golden Nugget Inc. God . 
The electrifying news of Ivan Boesky's guilty-plea arrangement had just crossed the ticker 
All eyes turned to Mr. Milken 
THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken showed no reaction 
After three or four phone calls, THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken jumped up and headed for brother Lowell's office, where THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken remained for more than an hour 
That weekend, Jim Dahl was summoned by Mr. Milken into the office 
Mr. Milken walked silently into the men's room, turned on the tap water full blast and said,  There have n't been any subpoenas issued 
Whatever you need to do, do the men's room . 
Cary Maultasch, Mr. Milken's representative in Drexel's New York office, was summoned as well, and booked a flight immediately for Los Angeles 
When Milken aide Cary Maultasch arrived, Milken aide Cary Maultasch was taken to Mr. Milken 
 You do n't know anything about the $ 5.3 million payment,  Mr. Milken said flatly 
But Mr. Maultasch did know 
The payment was the money Mr. Boesky had owed Mr. Milken when they finally decided to settle the books on their illegal trading arrangement 
Mr. Maultasch was dismissed, but Mr. Milken scheduled another meeting with THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken for 4 a.m. the next day 
When Mr. Maultasch arrived Milken aide Cary Maultasch was escorted into a conference room where Mr. Milken sat alone, a guard standing at the door 
Mr. Milken spoke in hushed tones and frequently wrote his questions on a yellow legal pad rather than speaking 
THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken erased the questions once they were answered 
The questions all concerned the illegal arrangement with Mr. Boesky, which Mr. Maultasch had helped Mr. Milken track 
When Mr. Milken wanted to discuss a specific stock, THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken used THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken pen to point at the stock's name on a list, never mentioning the name aloud 
When Mr. Maultasch left the office, Milken aide Cary Maultasch returned Milken aide Cary Maultasch entry pass to a Drexel security guard who tore it up 
 Do n't worry,  the guard said 
 You were n't here . 
Later, even after Mr. Milken had received his subpoenas, Mr. Milken sat down next to Mr. Peizer, the salesman, as Mr. Peizer was going through salesman Terren Peizer files 
 What are a Drexel security guard who tore it up doing ? 
Mr. Milken asked 
 Complying with a subpoena,  Mr. Peizer responded 
Mr. Milken opened THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken own file drawers 
They were empty 
 If you do n't have any documents,  Mr. Milken said,  you ca n't comply . 
Mr. Milken's defense strategy was set at the outset by lead counsel Edward Bennett Williams, the famed Washington criminal lawyer :  We have to remain on the inside -LCB- of the tent -RCB- pissing out . 
Potential witnesses had to stay loyal to Mr. Milken 
To bring this about, Mr. Milken's lawyers found other lawyers to represent potential witnesses whose cooperation they thought they could count on 
Thus, a key potential witness like Mr. Dahl ended up retaining Mr. Milken's own firm, Williams & Connolly 
Even though Drexel was paying Mr. Milken's legal fees, the Milken defense team, which also included noted New York lawyer Arthur Liman, decided not to cooperate with Drexel and the Milken defense team lawyers even while saying publicly that Mr. Milken's lawyers were working together 
Mr. Williams believed from the start that Drexel would fold under the pressure of a massive government investigation 
So Drexel's lawyers were n't allowed to interrogate Mr. Milken, even though Drexel's chief executive, Mr. Joseph, sent Drexel's lawyers out to California to get to the bottom of the Boesky allegations 
Most companies would fire so uncooperative an employee, but Drexel did nothing 
Thus, when Drexel kept insisting publicly that California could find no evidence of wrongdoing, California was hopelessly ill-informed 
Mr. Liman suggested that the Milken camp also retain public relations expert Linda Robinson, wife of American Express Co. 
Chairman James D. Robinson III, who had achieved prominence Linda Robinson like RJR Nabisco Chairman Ross Johnson 
Her colleague, Ken Lerer, and some associates soon sat down with Mr. Milken to ask the financier what Her colleague considered his principal achievements 
The PR-staffers would then build The PR-staffers campaign around The PR-staffers 
Mr. Milken took a legal pad and red flair pen and began to write, citing THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken achievements : that THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken won a dance contest in elementary school and was prom king in high school 
THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken stopped without mentioning Drexel 
Some of the participants rolled their eyes at the realization that portraying Mr. Milken as a national treasure would indeed be a tough assignment 
Mr. Lerer soon began placing pro-Milken tips with favored journalists,  breast feeding  favored journalists, as Mr. Lerer once called it 
The Robinson firm began writing pro-Milken op-ed pieces that were then signed by Milken clients 
The whole effort was enormously lucrative for the Robinson firm, which demanded a $ 150,000-a-month retainer and often exceeded a $ 150,000-a-month retainer in actual billings 
The possibility that Mr. Milken might be guilty was n't even allowed to be discussed inside the Robinson firm 
One afternoon, employee David Gilman, who worked on the Milken account, was conferring with Mr. Lerer when Mrs. Robinson marched into Lerer's office and sprang what staffers came to call the  loyalty test . 
 Is Milken innocent or guilty ? 
Linda Robinson demanded 
 Innocent, of course,  Mr. Gilman replied 
Mrs. Robinson did n't look satisfied, so he repeated,  Linda Robinson is innocent,  with more conviction 
 Right,  Mrs. Robinson answered, then stalked out of the room 
THE TENT BLOWS OPEN Two big breaks for the prosecutors helped topple the strenuous defense efforts of Mr. Milken's handlers 
Prosecutors working on the Robert Freeman case had gathered records of a New Jersey firm called Princeton-Newport that had done business with Mr. Freeman and Goldman Sachs 
Prosecutors working on the Robert Freeman case found some suspicious trading by one employee, whom Prosecutors working on the Robert Freeman case then learned had been fired 
The former employee, Will Hale, was subpoenaed and questioned 
The interrogation was getting nowhere 
Mr. Hale was evasive and reluctant 
Then prosecutors asked what seemed an innocuous question : Why did Mr. Hale leave Princeton-Newport 
Mr. Hale hesitated only slightly before answering,  Mr. Hale did n't leave 
Mr. Hale was fired . 
Why 
Mr. Hale was asked 
 Mr. Hale could n't stand all the crimes they were committing . 
Mr. Hale detailed a series of securities crimes and said Princeton-Newport's principal conspirator was none other than the Beverly Hills office of Drexel Burnham Lambert 
Prosecutors went on to seize audio phone tapes that implicated several Drexel employees, including Milken aide Cary Maultasch, who, learning Milken aide Cary Maultasch was under suspicion, soon dismissed Milken aide Cary Maultasch attorney out of fear that Milken aide Cary Maultasch was  in Milken's pocket . 
Mr. Maultasch began negotiations with the U.S. Attorney's office and became a cooperating witness 
Another major break came soon after Milken aide Jim Dahl was notified Milken aide Jim Dahl was about to be indicted 
All along, Mr. Dahl had known Milken aide Jim Dahl had something to hide 
At Mr. Milken's direction, THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken had helped client Columbia Savings & Loan evade taxes through phony trades 
Now Mr. Dahl began to question the loyalty of Milken aide Jim Dahl lawyer, Robert Litt, whose firm also represented Mr. Milken 
Mr. Dahl requested a new lawyer, but when Milken aide Jim Dahl came to believe that Mr. Litt was stalling, Milken aide Jim Dahl hired two new lawyers of his own 
When Mr. Dahl's new defense team examined the evidence against Milken aide Jim Dahl, Mr. Dahl was relieved : The suspicious trades being examined by the government had Milken aide Jim Dahl initials on the order tickets, but Milken aide Jim Dahl had n't done two new lawyers of his own 
One of the trading tickets actually had the initials M.M. at the bottom 
the initials M.M. at the bottom recognized the orders as trades in stocks for Ivan Boesky 
Mr. Dahl only handled bonds, and knew that Mr. Milken Milken aide Jim Dahl handled Mr. Boesky's trades 
Mr. Dahl immediately went to Milken aide Jim Dahl old lawyer, Mr. Litt, still working for Mr. Milken, and told Milken aide Jim Dahl  Milken aide Jim Dahl did n't do the trades, Mike did . 
Would Mr. Milken sign an affidavit that Mr. Dahl did n't do the trades 
A week later the answer came : Mr. Milken would n't sign or acknowledge anything 
Mr. Dahl's own trading assistant, still on Mr. Milken's payroll, said she suffered a memory lapse ; she did n't remember anything about the trades, so she could n't back up Mr. Dahl 
Soon, Mr. Dahl was convinced that Milken aide Jim Dahl was becoming a fall guy for Mr. Milken 
Milken aide Jim Dahl lawyers approached the U.S. Attorney's office and asked for immunity 
The  tent  so carefully erected had blown open 
Several other Drexel aides would soon follow Mr. Dahl into the government camp 
Even as Milken aide Jim Dahl lawyers claimed the defections did n't matter, the news hit Mr. Milken hard 
After testifying before a grand jury, Mr. Dahl was in New York when Milken aide Jim Dahl received a call from Mr. Milken 
Milken aide Jim Dahl was in Washington, and if Mr. Dahl met Milken aide Jim Dahl there, the two could fly back to Los Angeles together in Mr. Milken's plane 
Mr. Dahl, eager for a reconciliation with Milken aide Jim Dahl mentor, accepted 
But as the flight started, Mr. Milken said virtually nothing to Mr. Dahl 
THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken then selected a movie,  Raiders of the Lost Ark,  and turned up the sound so loud that Mr. Dahl's ears hurt 
 Mike, if Raiders of the Lost Ark 're not going to talk, will you at least turn that thing down ? 
Mr. Dahl asked 
But Mr. Milken did n't respond 
THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken did n't even look at Mr. Dahl, nor did THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken speak to THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken for the duration of the flight 
The message sank in 
To Mr. Milken, Mr. Dahl had ceased to exist 
ADMISSION OF GUILT By late 1988, having heard the Princeton-Newport tapes and other evidence, Chief Executive Fred Joseph had ceased to believe in Mr. Milken's innocence 
That meant Drexel was guilty, too 
Mr. Joseph traveled to the office of Mr. Milken's lead attorney, Arthur Liman (Mr. Williams having died that summer -RRB-, to explain Drexel Chief Executive Fred Joseph painful decision to have the firm plead guilty and dismiss Mr. Milken 
Drexel Chief Executive Fred Joseph was shocked at the reception Drexel Chief Executive Fred Joseph received 
Mr. Liman compared Mr. Joseph's decision to the Nazi persecution of Jews 
Arthur Liman argued that Mr. Joseph was depriving Mr. Milken of Drexel Chief Executive Fred Joseph rights prior to trial 
 That's the first step towards concentration camps,  Mr. Liman said 
 No man can deprive another of THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken freedoms . 
Mr. Joseph was too shocked to counter Mr. Liman's charges, but Drexel Chief Executive Fred Joseph insisted Drexel Chief Executive Fred Joseph mind was made up 
 Mike did what THE COVER-UP Mr. Milken did,  Mr. Joseph said 
 Drexel Chief Executive Fred Joseph 'm not here to try Michael Milken . 
Almost as an afterthought, Drexel Chief Executive Fred Joseph added,  Mike is going to plead guilty anyway . 
This really aroused Mr. Liman's indignation 
 Never,  Arthur Liman said firmly, showing Mr. Joseph to the door 
 Absolutely not . 
Mr. Joseph's next stop was Milken partisan Donald Engel, the man behind Drexel's infamous Predator's Balls 
Immediately after Mr. Joseph left Drexel Chief Executive Fred Joseph office, Mr. Liman placed a call to Mr. Engel 
 Donny, Donny's selling Donny out,  Mr. Liman reported 
So Mr. Engel was ready for a fight when Mr. Joseph arrived at Drexel Chief Executive Fred Joseph apartment 
Mr. Milken is  our brother,  Mr. Engel insisted 
 You 've got to fight 
A mafia lawyer would n't act like this . 
 We 're not a mafia company,  a weary Mr. Joseph replied 
THE FALL Despite the Milken team's repeated denials, plea bargaining was soon under way 
By March of 1989, prosecutors had put an offer on the table for Mr. Milken : plead guilty to just two felonies in return for immunity for his brother Lowell 
prosecutors deadline for a response was 3 p.m., March 29 
That afternoon, prosecutors gathered in prosecutors office to await the call from Mr. Milken's forces 
The grand jury was waiting nearby in the courthouse 
Expecting their client to plead guilty, Williams & Connolly's Mr. Litt had planned a trip to Disney World and Mr. Liman was planning to go to France that very day 
But as the day wore on, Mr. Milken had n't decided 
April 1990 Milken was n't even taking calls from April 1990 Milken own lawyers 
Finally, Mr. Litt got through to Mr. Milken 
 April 1990 Milken ca n't decide,  Mr. Milken said 
 April 1990 Milken 've got these concerns ...  The deadline passed without a response from Mr. Milken 
Still, the government waited 
A press conference to announce the indictment was scheduled for 4 p.m., then canceled 
Finally, a breathless Mr. Liman reached acting U.S. Attorney Benito Romano from a pay phone at New York's Kennedy International Airport and said,  a breathless Mr. Liman's ready to reach an agreement . 
 U.S. Attorney Benito Romano from a pay phone 'm sorry,  Mr. Romano responded after a brief pause 
 a brief pause's too late . 
Mr. Milken had made April 1990 Milken worst trade ever 
April 1990 Milken was indicted that day on 98 counts 
April 1990 Milken later pleaded innocent and asserted publicly for a year that April 1990 Milken would be acquitted 
But prosecutors had the advantage all along of knowing what the public did n't -- that Mr. Milken had already admitted guilt 
Mr. Milken's guilty plea, this time to six felonies, came a full year later 
On Nov. 21, 1990, federal district court Judge Kimba Wood sentenced Mr. Milken to 10 years in prison -- two years each on five of the six counts, with the sentences to run consecutively 
Many in the courtroom gasped as the sentence was read, but Mr. Milken showed no reaction 
When the Milken entourage had gathered in the corridor outside, the heavy door to the courtroom was closed 
Mr. Milken had still said nothing 
Then April 1990 Milken turned to Mr. Liman 
 How much did April 1990 Milken get ? 
April 1990 Milken asked, as if April 1990 Milken had n't heard Judge Wood 
 Two years ? 
There was a moment of stunned silence 
Apparently Mr. Milken thought April 1990 Milken was being sentenced to concurrent rather than consecutive sentences 
Mr. Liman broke the news 
 Ten years, Michael,  April 1990 Milken said gently 
 The sentence is 10 years . 
The blood drained from Mr. Milken's face 
April 1990 Milken took April 1990 Milken wife Lori's arm and the two disappeared into a small witness's waiting room off the corridor, closing the door behind them 
Moments later, first Lori, then Mr. Milken, emitted bloodcurdling screams 
Milken lawyer Richard Sandler burst into the room as Mr. Milken collapsed into a chair, hyperventilating 
 Oxygen -RSB-  someone yelled, as a federal marshal raced for help 
-- Chronology of Events May 1986 The Securities and Exchange Commission and federal prosecutors accuse Dennis Levine of making $ 12.6 million in insider-trading profits 
Nov. 1986 Ivan F. Boesky agrees to pay a $ 100 million penalty to settle SEC charges of insider trading 
Prosecutors reveal THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky has been cooperating in an undercover investigation 
Drexel Burnham Lambert and Michael Milken receive subpoenas 
Feb. 1987 Robert Freeman, Richard Wigton and Timothy Tabor are arrested on insider trading charges 
Martin Siegel admits insider trading and is identified as cooperating in the government's investigation 
May 1987 The indictments of Freeman, Wigton, and Tabor are dismissed 
Prosecutors vow to seek a new indictment 
Oct. 1987 The stock market crashes 
Dec. 1987 Boesky is sentenced to three years in prison 
Sept. 1988 The SEC accuses Drexel, Milken and others of insider trading, stock manipulation, fraud and other violations of federal securities laws 
Dec. 1988 Drexel agrees to plead guilty to six felonies, settle SEC charges, and pay a record $ 650 million 
March 1989 Milken and April 1990 Milken brother Lowell are indicted on 98 counts of racketeering and securities fraud 
Aug. 1989 Freeman pleads guilty to one count of insider trading 
The investigation of Oct. 1989 The junk-bond market collapses 
Feb. 1990 Drexel files for bankruptcy-court protection 
April 1990 Milken agrees to plead guilty to six felonies and to pay $ 600 million 
June 1990 Siegel is sentenced to two months in prison 
July 1990 John Mulheren is convicted after trial ; the conviction is later reversed 
Nov. 1990 Milken is sentenced to 10 years in prison 
-- Cast of Characters Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., Beverly Hills -- Michael Milken, head of high-yield securities -- Lowell Milken, Michael's brother, a lawyer -- Richard Sandler, lawyer -- James Dahl, salesman -- Gary Winnick, salesman -- Warren Trepp, head trader -- Cary Maultasch, trader -- Bruce Newberg, trader Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., New York -- Fred Joseph, chief executive -- Donald Engel, consultant -- Dennis Levine, investment banker Ivan F. Boesky Corp., New York -- Ivan Boesky, arbitrager -- Lance Lessman, head of research Kidder Peabody & Co., New York -- Martin Siegel, investment banker (later at Drexel )-- Richard Wigton, head of arbitrage -- Timothy Tabor, arbitrager Goldman, Sachs & Co., New York -- Robert Freeman, head of arbitrage Jamie Securities, New York -- John Mulheren, principal Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, New York (counsel for Siegel )-- Lawrence Pedowitz, partner Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, New York (counsel for Michael Milken )-- Arthur Liman, partner Williams & Connolly, Washington, D.C. (counsel for Michael Milken )-- Edward Bennett Williams, partner -- Robert Litt, partner Robinson, Lake, Lerer & Montgomery, New York (public relations counsel for Michael Milken )-- Linda Robinson -- Kenneth Lerer -- Irreconcilable Differences Everyone named in this article was interviewed or was asked for an interview and given an opportunity to comment 
To a surprising degree, differences that emerged in various accounts were reconciled during further interviews 
The one major exception occurs between Mr. Milken's assertions of fact, and Mr. Boesky's 
The reporting found that Mr. Boesky's version was consistently more accurate 
After making THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky plea agreement, Mr. Boesky's only obligation was to tell the truth ; indeed, THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky plea bargain would be revoked if THE JUNIOR PARTNER Mr. Boesky lied 
In contrast -- and in striking departure from usual Justice Department practice -- Mr. Milken's plea bargain is n't revocable even if April 1990 Milken now lies 
April 1990 Milken did n't testify under oath, even at April 1990 Milken presentencing hearing when given the opportunity to do so, and during the investigation April 1990 Milken repeatedly invoked the Fifth Amendment 
Nonetheless, the following is an effort to convey Mr. Milken's position, largely set forth in court filings responding to government charges, as well as the positions of others who dispute aspects of this story 
Diamond Shamrock : Mr. Milken has repeatedly denied engaging in insider trading 
April 1990 Milken has insisted that April 1990 Milken committed no crimes other than the six to which April 1990 Milken pleaded guilty 
When given the opportunity to respond to allegations of insider trading in Diamond Shamrock and other stocks, April 1990 Milken lawyers said only that if Mr. Milken had been routinely insider trading with Mr. Boesky, Mr. Boesky would n't have needed to trade illegally with Dennis Levine 
Mr. Milken's Fainting Spell : Lowell Milken's attorney says Lowell Milken's attorney client attended to their client to plead guilty brother and called an ambulance for their client to plead guilty 
The Siegel/Freeman scheme : Mr. Freeman has denied engaging in any criminal activity other than the one instance of insider trading with Mr. Siegel to which Mr. Freeman pleaded guilty 
Mr. Freeman has apparently denied other specific alleged instances in a presentencing memorandum, but at Mr. Freeman request, this document has been sealed 
The Wall Street Journal has filed suit to obtain the report ; the litigation is pending 
MCA/Golden Nugget : This was the subject of Count Three of Mr. Milken's plea agreement 
But while admitting crime, Mr. Milken has insisted that the subsequent purchasers of MCA stock were victims only of Mr. Boesky's rush to sell, not of the subsequent purchasers of MCA stock mutual scheme 
Pacific Lumber : In response to these allegations, Mr. Milken's lawers said,  It is obviously impossible for April 1990 Milken to refute ... each and every transaction which Boesky now claims was tainted with illegality . 
Liman/Joseph discussions : While acknowledging having a wide-ranging philosophical discussion, Mr. Liman has denied comparing Mr. Joseph to the Nazis 
-- James B. 
