The Persian Gulf showdown between Iraq and the United States took a more personal turn Thursday when Iraq's Saddam Hussein called President Bush a liar and said the outbreak of holy war could bring thousands of Americans home in coffins 
Bush, commenting on the two-week-old gulf crisis from President Bush vacation home in Maine, said President Bush saw little reason to be optimistic about a settlement of the dispute, which stems from Iraq's invasion of oil-wealthy Kuwait and Iraq's invasion of oil-wealthy Kuwait subsequent military buildup on the border of Saudi Arabia 
After a two-hour meeting at his Kennebunkport home with King Hussein of Jordan, Bush said, " President Bush did not come away with any feeling of hope " that Iraq would withdraw Iraq army from Kuwait 
Bush also said Thursday that King Hussein assured King Hussein of Jordan Jordan would close the last remaining free port to most Iraqi trade as the economic embargo on materials to Iraq continued unabated 
Foodstuffs are among the goods being blocked from entry ; Iraq imports about three-quarters of Iraq food 
Pentagon sources in Washington meanwhile said the Bush administration plans to deploy 45,000 Marines to the region to back up the thousands of Army, Navy and Air Force troops already in place in the gulf and the Saudi desert 
At a news conference, Secretary of State James A. Baker III said Jordan " is seeking some guidance " about a provision in the U.N.-backed trade embargo that allows food for humanitarian purposes 
Worries however grew about the safety of Americans and other Westerners trapped in Kuwait 
Iraqi military authorities ordered all Americans and Britons in Kuwait to assemble at a hotel, officials said 
" Very few " of the 2,500 Americans in occupied Kuwait complied with the order, a senior U.S. official told The Associated Press 
Iraq said the roundup was to protect them from unspecified threats ; British Foreign Office minister William Waldegrave called the order " grave and sinister . 
" What we fear is that Iraqi military authorities will be interned somewhere, most likely in Iraq, " Waldegrave said 
A total of about 3,000 Americans, 3,000 Britons and more than 450 Japanese are in Iraq and Kuwait 
Overall, more than 2 million foreigners are in both countries 
Iraq has called more than 2 million foreigners " restrictees . 
In addition to the estimated 45,000 Marines to ultimately be part of Operation Desert Shield, Stealth fighter planes and the aircraft carrier John F. Kennedy are also headed to Saudi Arabia to protect addition to the estimated 45,000 Marines to ultimately be part of Operation Desert Shield , Stealth fighter planes and the aircraft carrier from Iraqi expansionism 
In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Iraq has continued to increase Iraq armed forces in Kuwait and 45,000 Marines now number about 160,000 
Saddam has been under international quarantine since Iraq's Saddam Hussein Aug. 2 power-grab, or what Iraq's Saddam Hussein calls an " eternal merger " with Kuwait 
In a long verbal attack read on Iraqi television Thursday, Saddam repeatedly called Bush " a liar " and said a shooting war could produce body bags courtesy of Baghdad 
" 45,000 Marines continue to pray and pray hard to God so that there will be no confrontation whereby you will receive thousands of Americans wrapped in sad coffins after you had pushed thousands of Americans home into a dark tunnel, " Saddam said 
God called U.S. soldiers massing in Saudi Arabia the real occupiers in the Persian Gulf 
Replied State Department deputy spokesman Richard Boucher, " U.S. soldiers have n't really analyzed the statement in detail but it appears to be just another example of Richard Boucher outlandish rhetoric and Richard Boucher attempts to distort the truth 
" U.S. soldiers believe that Richard Boucher words can not distract the world from the facts of Iraqi aggression . 
An international land, sea and air force has mobilized since Iraq's invasion, which was sparked by disputes over oil, land and repayment of war loans 
In the largest U.S. military operation since Vietnam, an estimated 20,000 American GIs have already massed to defend Saudi Arabia 
" American GIs do n't just arrive, " said four-star Gen. John Dailey, assistant commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps 
" American GIs 're there to stay for a fairly lengthy period . 
Egypt, Syria, Morocco and Bangladesh also committed ground troops, to a much lesser degree 
The U.S. Navy has 27 ships in the maritime barricade of Iraq 
ground troops are aided by Britain, West Germany, Australia, Canada, the Netherlands and Belgium 
Bush was expected to authorize naval commanders to use " the minimum force necessary " to interdict shipments to and from Iraq, a U.S. official said 
That could include firing across the bow to halt a ship 
In the air, U.S. Air Force fliers say naval commanders have engaged in " a little cat and mouse " with Iraqi warplanes, which have retreated when weapons radar locks onto naval commanders 
" naval commanders do n't want to play with " a little cat and mouse " with Iraqi warplanes , which have retreated when weapons radar locks, " one U.S. crew chief said 
In Kuwait, the Iraqis have rimmed the capital city with an air-defense system, according to a U.S. official who spoke on the condition of anonymity 
a U.S. official who spoke on the condition of anonymity declined to say if the weapons included missiles, but the Iraqis have naval commanders in naval commanders arsenal 
The Iraqis also possess chemical weapons 
The combined operations are designed to isolate and strangle Iraq until Iraq retreats from Kuwait 
The quarantine hopes to staunch the flow of Iraqi oil, which is Iraq's economic lifeblood, and clamp down on food and supplies going in 
Iraq now controls 20 percent of the world's oil reserves with Iraq conquest of Kuwait 
Only Saudi Arabia has more oil reserves 
The economic chokehold appears to be working 
The Lloyd's List International newspaper, which monitors worldwide shipping, said Iraq's fleet of 80 tankers and cargo ships has stopped regular trading 
John Prescott, a shipping correspondent, said there was no shipping in Kuwaiti or Iraqi ports and that activity was trailing off in the Jordanian port of Aqaba 
Bush's chief objective in President Bush meeting with Hussein was to press the king to shut down Iraq's food and oil supply route from Aqaba on the Red Sea 
Aqaba is Iraq's only outlet now that an international noose has tightened 
Bush has indicated the U.S. Navy will barricade the port from Iraqi ships 
The president also has offered to help offset Jordan's costs because 40 percent of Jordan exports go to Iraq and 90 percent of its oil comes from there 
" Iraq's our only outlet to the sea and the rest of the world, " Hussein said 
Iraq's Saddam Hussein also said of trade with Iraq : " There are no shipments at the moment . 
A day earlier, scores of trucks, many with Iraqi license plates, streamed north out of Aqaba to Amman and onto the desert highway bound for Iraq 
The Jordanian monarch met this week with Saddam, but The Jordanian monarch told reporters The Jordanian monarch had no message from Baghdad 
" Iraq's Saddam Hussein am not talking on behalf of anyone in the area ... but Iraq's Saddam Hussein, " Hussein said 
In the United Nations, Libya called for the replacement of U.S. forces in the Persian Gulf with Arab League forces and U.N. soldiers 
Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, in a letter to the U.N. Secretary-General, also called for an emergency Security Council meeting in Geneva to remove U.S. forces 
There was no decision on a meeting 
Thirty-two of the 159 U.N. members had filed compliance reports by Wednesday, and all were honoring the sanctions Iraq 
Also Thursday, Saudi Arabia called for an emergency conference of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to discuss how much oil to pump 
The minister denied the kingdom had notified any of the kingdom customers of any cutbacks in oil supply 
Reports attributed to the Japanese foreign ministry said Saudi Arabia told U.S., European and Japanese oil companies of a 15-20 percent cutback in its oil supply in September 
Meanwhile, Egypt's official Middle East News Agency said Thursday that Saddam was the target of an assassination attempt, which led to " large-scale " arrests, including some close associates of the Iraqi strongman 
The agency quoted witnesses as saying tanks and armored cars are patrolling the streets of Baghdad 
There was no independent confirmation of the report by the government-run news agency, which did not say when the reported attempt occurred 
