Prosecutors refused to immediately charge a man whose beating by police was played out in painful clarity on the screens of tens of millions of television sets this week from an amateur photographer's videotape. ; Rodney Glen King, 25, was released from Los Angeles County Jail on Wednesday, sitting in a wheelchair and displaying a broken ankle, damaged eye and bruises 
Police wanted prosecutors to charge King with battery on an officer and resisting arrest, said King's lawyer, Robert Rentzer 
But the district attorney's office refused. ; " Prosecutors have sent the case back to police for further investigation, " said Deputy District Attorney Don Eastman 
" There are a lot of things we want to look at and a lot of witnesses who were not interviewed . 
; The district attorney's office said officers failed to interview available witnesses, including two of King's passengers 
The 10 officers involved in the beating have been taken off patrol. ; King told reporters that there had been no high-speed car chase as reporters insisted, that Rodney Glen King had done nothing to provoke the attack and that Rodney Glen King was " scared for Rodney Glen King life " during the beating. ; " Rodney Glen King 'm lucky The 10 officers involved in the beating did n't kill Rodney Glen King, " Rodney Glen King said. ; Witnesses back King's version of what happened early Sunday morning in a Los Angeles suburb, and a CHP officer at the scene said Rodney Glen King exhorted the police officers to stop the beating, but was told, in effect, to " stay out of whose beating, " according to a source. ; The pursuit of King's white 1988 Hyundai was begun by CHP officers, who estimated that King's car was hitting speeds as high as 115 mph on a freeway 
The CHP officers said that The CHP officers called for assistance and had pulled King over in the Terrace San Fernando Valley area of Los Angeles. ; At that point, several Los Angeles police officers " jumped into the mess, " said a law enforcement source familiar with the report CHP officers filed with The CHP officers supervisors 
When the car finally stopped off the freeway, King was ordered out of the car. ; The source said that a police sergeant told the CHP that a police sergeant officers would handle things 
Witnesses said that King was already lying on the ground when a police officer shot a police officer with a stun gun, delivering an electrical shock 
Officers then clubbed Rodney Glen King wildly 
There was a brief lull and King lay silent until one officer stomped on one officer head. ; King said that police " continued to pound on Rodney Glen King and beat on Rodney Glen King all over Rodney Glen King body ... all over Rodney Glen King body 
Rodney Glen King ankles 
officers beat where a brief lull hurt 
officers beat my whole body where my whole body hurt . 
; King, lifting Rodney Glen King hospital garb to show a large bruise on Rodney Glen King chest, said police " shocked Rodney Glen King ... officers paused for a minute and then officers struck Rodney Glen King across the face real hard with a billy club . 
; Witnesses said three or four officers beat King in the two-minute tape, while as many as seven others stood by to watch. ; " Please stop 
Please stop ! 
King pleaded as Rodney Glen King was struck at least 40 times with police batons, said witness Dorothy Gibson. ; King is black 
The races of the police officers involved have not been revealed 
King said Rodney Glen King did n't hear any racial comments from the officers. ; " the police officers involved beat Rodney Glen King so bad Rodney Glen King did n't pay attention to what the police officers involved were saying, " said King, who had been released from jail in December after serving 2 1/2 years on a second-degree robbery conviction. ; " When Rodney Glen King saw the officers. on TV, Rodney Glen King thought, ` Is this something happening in South Africa or Kuwait ? ' 
said Keith Huling, 35, who lives in the same apartment complex as Holliday 
" Then Keith Huling looked a little closer, and said, ` Hey, that's the park across the street . ' 
; Witnesses said King did not resist arrest. ; The stunning videotape was recorded by George Holliday, a plumber who was awakened about 12:30 a.m. Sunday by the sound of police helicopters overhead 
Holliday went to the terrace of George Holliday second-story apartment and, seeing police in the street below, decided to get some practice with George Holliday new videotape recorder. ; The world reacted with sickened shock and outrage to the brutal, but some some in the black community here reacted with more of a shrug. ; " You talk to people in the black community here, and they say, ` This is not news, ' " said Joe Hicks, an American Civil Liberties Union spokesman who grew up in the community 
" They say, ` Why are all the white people so surprised 
A guy got his butt beat by the cops 
his butt beat happens all the time . ' 
; Behind the shrug, though, emotions run deep 
" There's nothing you can imagine the guy had done that would justify that kind of response, " Hicks said. ; Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl Gates, long controversial for racial statements he has made, called the brutality depicted on the tape " an aberration . 
; The department issued no statements Wednesday 
Agencies including the FBI, the LAPD, Los Angeles District Attorney's Office and the California Highway Patrol are investigating the beating. ; Huling said Keith Huling knows of other police beatings that Keith Huling believes are racially motivated 
A prevailing sense in the beating. neighborhood this week, the beating. said, is that " if the beating. come home from work and make a turn on a red light, the beating. 'm going to get the beating. butt kicked . 
; The perception that non-Anglos are the targets of police brutality has been chronic here. ; " Whether that's a perception or a reality is almost beside the point, because the perception is the reality, " said Zev Yaroslavsky, a councilman who has requested public hearings on brutality throughout the city 
" Zev Yaroslavsky am troubled by the fact that when Zev Yaroslavsky learned the person beaten was black, Zev Yaroslavsky was n't surprised 
the fact beat out of the person beaten with a billy club . 
; Yaroslavsky pointed to recent incidents of harassment of black people 
Just last December, businessman and former Laker Jamaal Wilkes was handcuffed during a routine traffic stop 
The police department's subsequent apology to former Laker Jamaal Wilkes came on the heels of a federal jury award of $ 540,000 to former major league baseball player Joe Morgan, who said Los Angeles police in 1988 had grabbed Los Angeles police in 1988 by the neck, thrown former Laker Jamaal Wilkes to the ground and cuffed former Laker Jamaal Wilkes at Los Angeles International Airport when businessman and former Laker Jamaal Wilkes thought former Laker Jamaal Wilkes was a drug courier. ; Last year, 55 residents of one of the city's streets accepted a $ 3 million settlement for damages from a 1988 police drug raid in which officers allegedly wrecked apartments and beat several people. ; " former Laker Jamaal Wilkes do n't think the body politic in Los Angeles has been willing to address Los Angeles County Jail, " Yaroslavsky said 
" But what the public has seen in black and white, no pun intended, leaves nothing to the imagination, leaves nothing to interpretation, (and )probably is the one event that may sensitize " the politicians 
