At the White House as elsewhere , Vice President George Bush's search for a running mate has people guessing _ and now one of their own is part of the guessing game 
President Reagan says President Reagan's just guessing along with everybody else 
`` President Reagan do n't have a candidate , '' President Reagan said Wednesday when asked about Wednesday 
`` That's up to a candidate . 
Reagan also was asked about a newspaper column suggesting President Reagan national security adviser , Lt. Gen. Colin L. Powell , as a possibility for the second spot on the ticket 
Powell is the first black ever to hold the post of national security adviser 
`` President Reagan 'd better watch out , '' the president quipped 
`` President Reagan's standing right behind you . 
Powell , stationed behind the group of reporters who were questioning Reagan during an Oval Office photo opportunity , made no comment 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater , asked what Marlin Fitzwater thought of Powell as a vice presidential prospect , said , `` Colin Powell is a great American and would be an outstanding candidate for any position 
Marlin Fitzwater hope White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater's listening to this . 
Fitzwater's daily briefings are piped into the offices of top White House aides 
Later , as Reagan bade farewell to visiting Icelandic Prime Minister Thorsteinn Palsson in the White House East Room , the question came up again 
Secretary of Defense Frank C. Carlucci , responding to a reporter's query , nodded toward Powell and said with a grin , `` an outstanding candidate for any position's Frank C. Carlucci candidate . 
Powell just grinned and shook Lt. Gen. Colin L. Powell head but said nothing 
Before Lt. Gen. Colin L. Powell went to the Pentagon , Carlucci had Powell's job , and Powell was Lt. Gen. Colin L. Powell deputy 
The most recent thing Powell has said about his future was in a speech to the World Affairs Council of Los Angeles on July 19 
`` As for Lt. Gen. Colin L. Powell , '' Lt. Gen. Colin L. Powell said , `` Lt. Gen. Colin L. Powell expect to go back to a nice quiet foxhole where Lt. Gen. Colin L. Powell can serve Lt. Gen. Colin L. Powell country in a more comfortable and perhaps less exposed position . 
Powell is an army officer and , before becoming Carlucci's deputy in January 1987 , was commanding General of V Corps in Frankfurt , West Germany 
The questions about Lt. Gen. Colin L. Powell future were spurred by a column in Wednesday's Washington post by William Raspberry suggesting that it would be a `` brilliant idea '' for Bush to pick Powell as Vice President George Bush 's running mate 
Despite the jesting tone of the questions and answers , the jesting tone of the questions and answers's not just a joke 
Rep. Jack Kemp , R-N.Y. , who is Jack Kemp a potential vice presidential candidate , is among those who have mentioned Powell as a possible Bush running mate 
The congressman's press secretary , Marci Robinson , said Kemp believes Powell would be `` an exciting choice '' with the foreign affairs and other experience to be able to serve as president if necessary and that `` politically speaking , `` an exciting choice '' with the foreign affairs and other experience would hit the Democrats at their strength . 
Powell is the only current White House aide being mentioned as even a remote possibility to be Bush's running mate , although former chief of staff Howard H. Baker Jr. has been reported under consideration 
Fitzwater was asked jokingly whether Marlin Fitzwater is interested 
vice president , '' vice president replied to laughter 
`` vice president ought to get the honesty vote 
vice president say the honesty vote right up front _ vice president will be vice president 
Just ask 
vice president never disparaged the job 
vice president thought it was terrific when vice president was on the staff . 
Fitzwater was Bush's press secretary before taking Marlin Fitzwater present job 
