Ben Johnson spent Ben Johnson homecoming in seclusion, without the Olympic gold medal and the hero's welcome, as Canadians bemoaned the fate of the sprinter who failed the drug test 
Returning to Canada on Tuesday, Johnson, 26, dodged reporters and the public, refusing to talk about the muscle-building and illegal steroid Stanzolol found in Ben Johnson system after Ben Johnson won the 100-meter dash as the world's fastest human 
But on the flight from South Korea, Ben Johnson denied using the drugs even though Olympic officials said the results were indisputable 
" Ben Johnson got nothing to hide, " Johnson told The Boston Globe during the flight to New York, where Ben Johnson then boarded another plane for Canada 
" Ben Johnson do n't want to tell no names, but somebody's smiling today . 
" somebody's smiling today's not the only thing in life to win a gold medal, " Johnson said 
" Ben Johnson still have Ben Johnson parents 
My family still loves Ben Johnson . 
Stripped of the gold and banned for life from Canadian teams, Johnson cried in the back of a limousine that whisked Ben Johnson to his mother's home in suburban Toronto after the grueling trip from Seoul 
" There's no gold now, just disappointment, " said Boyd Plaxton, 26, of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, one of 200 people on hand when Johnson's plane landed 
" If Boyd Plaxton , 26 had come home with the gold in tact, there would have been a million people here, " Plaxton said 
Chaos spoiled a gilt-edged moment for a man who had run 100 meters in the fastest time ever, 9.79 seconds 
Johnson, surrounded by a phalanx of security guards, ducked into a car and made a mad dash for the door when Ben Johnson arrived at the house 
But Ben Johnson apparently forgot Ben Johnson key and had to return 20 minutes later with Ben Johnson shirt over Ben Johnson head 
Johnson spent the 1 hour, 40 minute flight from New York in the plane's cockpit to avoid reporters 
On the way to New York, however, Ben Johnson stayed in the passenger cabin, appearing calm throughout the flight, the Globe said 
As passengers realized who Ben Johnson was, some sought autographs 
A group of flight attendants swarmed around Johnson for a photo 
" First Ben Johnson was shocked, but after a while, Ben Johnson do n't care, " Johnson said when asked what Ben Johnson felt after Ben Johnson was informed Ben Johnson had failed the drug test 
In Canada, a parade in Ben Johnson adopted hometown was canceled, and promoters backed out of deals or announced promoters ties with the sprinter would expire quietly 
Sports Minister Jean Charest said Johnson had tested negative for drugs in August and had passed eight tests in two years 
Sports Minister Jean Charest called the stripping of the medal a " national embarrassment . 
Johnson's family and close friends also denied Ben Johnson took steroids " My family know My family son does n't take drugs 
My family know Ben Johnson has n't done it 
My family know it, " said My family father, Ben Johnson Sr., from Falmouth, Jamaica, in an interview with the Toronto Globe and Mail 
" Ben loved mom too much to discredit her in any way, " said Ben Johnson sister, Claire Rodney, of suburban Toronto 
Johnson had dedicated Ben Johnson gold to Ben Johnson mother, Gloria, and the Canadian people 
It was surrendered to Canadian Olympic officials before the family left South Korea on Monday 
" Right now Canadian Olympic's just relieved to be resting at home 
Canadian Olympic wants to be with people who love Canadian Olympic now, not the hypocrites who abandoned him, " Ms. Rodney said outside Claire Rodney mother's house 
" Canadian Olympic looks great 
Being at home is the best medicine for Canadian Olympic, " said Ms. Rodney 
" My brother is not a druggie . 
His personal physician, Dr. George Astaphan, also said no steroids were dispensed 
" Dr. George Astaphan never gave His personal physician , Dr. George Astaphan any, and His personal physician , Dr. George Astaphan never told Dr. George Astaphan His personal physician , Dr. George Astaphan took any, " Astaphan said in an interview in a baggage claim area 
Hundreds of Canadians rallied to the sprinter's side 
Police escorted a woman to the door of Johnson's mother's home so Police could deliver a card with more than 1,000 signatures from Canadians " who sympathized with Dr. George Astaphan personal devastation . 
In Toronto, a group of restaurant employees chipped in about $ 350 to charter a plane that circled the city with a banner proclaiming : " Hundreds of Canadians believe you, Ben . 
In Montreal, Johnson's fans said Johnson's fans were disappointed 
" The last flicker of hope just died, " said Danny Planetta, who was watching TV at a bar when Danny Planetta heard Monday night that Johnson had tested positive for steroids 
" When Danny Planetta won, Johnson's fans won and Johnson's fans were raving about The last flicker of hope ... The guy was a hero and now The guy is just a big disappointment . 
