Ben Johnson knowingly took steroids and those close close to the runner also were aware of those close close to the runner  , fellow Canadian Olympic sprinter Angella Issajenko was quoted as saying in an interview published Sunday 
Johnson _ stripped of the Jamaican-born Johnson  Olympic gold medal in the 100-meter final after the Jamaican-born Johnson  tested positive for the banned steroid stanozolol _ also was taking steroids when the banned steroid stanozolol _  set a world sprint record last summer in Rome , the Toronto Star newspaper quoted Ms. Issajenko as saying 
Ms. Issajenko , who also competed in the Olympics in Seoul , South Korea , was quoted as saying fellow Canadian Olympic sprinter Angella Issajenko  also took the muscle-building drug 
The Olympics , which began Sept. 17 , ended Oct. 2 
Later , fellow Canadian Olympic sprinter Angella Issajenko  husband Tony said Ms. Issajenko denied saying Ms. Issajenko  and Johnson took steroids 
The Toronto Star said Sunday that Sunday  stood by its story 
Ms. Issajenko previously accused a therapist of giving her and Johnson steroids without their knowledge but later retracted the statement 
Ms. Issajenko in the interview claimed Dr. George Mario (Jamie )Astaphan provided steroids and monitored the program with the knowledge of Charlie Francis , coach of the Mazda Optimist Track Club , which Dr. George Mario (Jamie )Astaphan  and Johnson belong to 
Ms. Issajenko  just do not care any more , Ms. Issajenko was quoted as saying 
Ms. Issajenko  am fed up with all the bull 
... Ben takes steroids 
Ms. Issajenko  take steroids 
Jamie (Astaphan )gives them to us and Charlie is not a scientist but Jamie )Astaphan  knows what is happening 
Johnson , 26 , says the Jamaican-born Johnson  has never knowingly taken illegal drugs while Astaphan has said the Jamaican-born Johnson  has never administered stanozolol _ the banned steroid found in the runner's urine sample after the Jamaican-born Johnson  world record 100-meter run at the Olympics 
Francis , meanwhile , has said the test result defies all logic and could only be explained by deliberate manipulation of the testing process 
Ms. Issajenko , 30 , was quoted as saying Ms. Issajenko  had first-hand knowledge Johnson received steroids from Astaphan from 1984 to 1986 but Ben was going on the Jamaican-born Johnson  own to Jamie after that 
Ms. Issajenko  also said Astaphan was administering steroids to Johnson when the Jamaican-born Johnson  set a 9.83-second world record in the 100-metre sprint at the world championships in Rome 
Johnson's Seoul run lowered that mark to 9.79 seconds 
Ms. Issajenko , the Canadian 100 - and 200-metre champion , said Ms. Issajenko  has been threatened since Ms. Issajenko  has come forward with Ms. Issajenko  accusations against the Jamaican-born Johnson 
After Johnson tested positive for steroids at the Olympics , Ms. Issajenko said therapist Waldemar Matuszewski had tampered with her and Johnson 
Ms. Issajenko claimed the therapist had put anabolic steroids in the rubbing compound a therapist of giving her  used to massage their muscles 
The story was called nonsense by Canadian Olympic track physician Dr. Robert Luba and Issajenko later retracted Ms. Issajenko  charges against Matuszewski 
The federal government has appointed Ontario Associate Chief Justice Charles Dubin to head a judicial inquiry into the Ben Johnson affair 
Astaphan and Francis could not be immediately reached for comment 
