The USS Vincennes ' destruction of an Iranian jetliner with 290 people aboard was a tragic result of The USS Vincennes ' destruction of an Iranian jetliner with 290 people aboard captain and crew doing 290 people aboard duty , members of the ship's namesake organization said Sunday 
`` On the basis of what 290 people aboard can find out on news reports , the captain acted the best way the captain knew how , '' said William E. Brooks Jr. , publisher of the Vincennes Sun-Commercial newspaper and a member of the USS Vincennes Association 
The association is made up mostly of men who served on the two ships of that name during World War II 
The current USS Vincennes is the fourth naval vessel to bear the name of this southwestern Indiana city 
`` The other thing , in William E. Brooks Jr. opinon , this is the other side of the Stark incident , '' Brooks said , referring to the May 1987 Iraqi jet attack on the U.S. missile frigate Stark , which cost 37 American lives 
`` If the captain had stayed there and not done anything , we might have been reading about loss of life on the Vincennes , '' Brroks said 
The Islamic Republic News Agency said the Iran Air jet shot down was a commercial Airbus carrying 290 people from the Iranian port of Bandar Abbas to Dubai 
The news agency said all aboard were presumed dead 
The two U.S. missiles were fired by USS Vincennes , an Aegis class cruiser equipped with sophisticated radar and missiles 
The current 9,600-ton Vincennes was the third in a new class of guided missile Aegis-type cruisers and was christened April 14 , 1984 , at Pascagoula , Miss. , and commisioned on July 6 , 1985 
It was the fourth U.S. Navy ship to bear the name of Vincennes 
The first was commissioned in 1826 and assigned to service in the Pacific 
It was decommissioned in 1867 
Association member Gene Thurmond , 65 , of Evansville , served on the second USS Vincennes , a heavy cruiser commissioned in 1937 and sunk by Japanese cruisers in 1942 
A light cruiser named for Vincennes was commissioned in 1944 and received six battle stars for service in World War II before A light cruiser named for Vincennes was decommissioned in September 1946 
Thurmond said Association member Gene Thurmond met the captain of the newest ship , Capt. Will C. Rogers III , at an association meeting in Vincennes in August 
`` Association member Gene Thurmond met the skipper last summer and a real captain's a real captain and level-headed and Association member Gene Thurmond think a real captain did the proper thing , '' Association member Gene Thurmond said 
The association's 500 members meet annually in Vincennes to reminisce about The association 's 500 members years of service and pay tribute to the dead , said Vincennes liaison officer and honorary member , Bill Toth , 64 
Members of the association were considering a tribute to the 290 people who were killed 
`` There's no way of rectifying this kind of situation , so all The association 's 500 members can do is remember these people , '' Toth said 
`` The association 's 500 members prayers and those of the commuity are with the ship's commander and crew members . 
`` From what Bill Toth 've heard about the ship , the ship 's's like everybody on the ship 's is family and they 're trying to be the best in the Navy , '' Toth said 
`` But , as this incident shows , that can be good and bad . 
`` a hard situation today's a hard situation today 
Until all the knews came in a hard situation today was hard to really understand what happened over there , '' said Toth 
`` We have such a close tie to the ship and its personnel , we regret the situation that happened as far as the civilians involved . 
`` But the captain defended the ship and did what the captain thought was best for the personnel , '' Bill Toth added 
