Ben Johnson, the world-class sprinter knocked off track and field's pedestal after testing positive for steroids, says field's pedestal's wrong for athletes to use the muscle-building substance 
" I got caught in Seoul 
I lost my gold medal, " the Canadian told reporters as legislation to classify anabolic steroids as a controlled substance was introduced Thursday 
" I 'm here to tell the people of this country this country's wrong to cheat, not to take this country, this country's bad for your health . 
Watching Johnson was Ben Johnson chief nemesis : Carl Lewis, the man who was awarded the Olympic gold medals Johnson lost 
" the flamboyant , pony-tailed Lewis think Olympic's great, " Lewis said of the legislation 
" the people of this country 're making a move and a move's very positive 
the flamboyant , pony-tailed Lewis 'm happy to see a move . 
However, the flamboyant, pony-tailed Lewis told reporters : " the flamboyant , pony-tailed Lewis do n't understand why Ben Johnson's here . 
Lewis said the flamboyant , pony-tailed Lewis attended the news conference because the flamboyant , pony-tailed Lewis was working on the flamboyant , pony-tailed Lewis autobiography and one of the chapters deals with steroids 
the flamboyant , pony-tailed Lewis said the flamboyant , pony-tailed Lewis did n't intend to upstage Johnson 
Reps. Mel Levine, D-Calif., Henry Waxman, D-Calif., and Benjamin Gilman, R-N.Y., invited Johnson to attend as Reps. Mel Levine , D-Calif. , Henry Waxman , D-Calif. , and Benjamin Gilman , R-N.Y. presented the legislation that would make anabolic steroids a controlled substance, similar to the designation given cocaine and heroin 
The lawmakers emphasized the increasing abuse of steroids by college, high school and even junior high school athletes who believe the substance will enhance their performance 
" America is about to have an adolescent time-bomb explode in an adolescent time-bomb hands, " Levine said 
" But if The lawmakers act quickly enough to restrict steroid distribution, and to increase the penalties for illicit distribution, The lawmakers can prevent this plague from spreading . 
Levine referred to the abuse of steroids as " the silent side of the drug disease in this country . 
Mel Levine applauded Johnson's courage for attending the news conference 
Johnson later stepped up to the microphones and in a quiet voice with a slight stutter told other athletes not to make the same mistake Ben Johnson did, urging other athletes " to come forward, to come clean . 
Lewis dismissed reporters ' questions that the flamboyant , pony-tailed Lewis had used steroids, indicating the flamboyant , pony-tailed Lewis would be willing to run against Johnson " if Ben Johnson comes back and Ben Johnson's clean . 
While Lewis held the spotlight, Johnson slipped away to adjoining congressional offices 
" the flamboyant , pony-tailed Lewis's not here to compete with Carl Lewis 
Ed Futerman hope the flamboyant , pony-tailed Lewis will someday, " said Ed Futerman, Johnson's lawyer 
