Congressional Democrats are one signature short of the 12 needed to demand the appointment of a special prosecutor to examine the collapse of a savings and loan led by Neil Bush 
Meanwhile , former Rep. Thomas L. Ashley said Friday former Rep. Thomas L. Ashley has been regularly advising President Bush's son on his savings and loan troubles as a longtime family friend _ but not at the president's request 
Neil Bush told federal regulators last December that Ashley , a banking industry official who was a college classmate of the president's , `` apparently , you know , called Neil Bush father , and then so at Dad's request Dad 's called Neil Bush . 
Ashley confirmed in a telephone interview Neil Bush has talked to the president about Neil Bush but said Neil Bush contacted the son on Neil Bush own after reading of his troubles in the newspaper 
Neil Bush said President Bush was well aware of Neil Bush activity 
Rep. Edward F. Feighan , D-Ohio , withdrew Edward F. Feighan name Friday from a petition to trigger the independent counsel law in the Neil Bush case , leaving Democrats one short of the 12 signatures needed to trigger the independent counsel law 
The law requires the signature of at least 12 Democrats , a majority of the 21 on the committee , to make the request for a special prosecutor 
Andrea Camp , a spokeswoman for Rep. Pat Schroeder , D-Colo. , who is organizing the Democratic effort , said , `` Andrea Camp , a spokeswoman for Rep. Pat Schroeder , D-Colo. , who is organizing the Democratic effort do n't think D-Colo.'s a question of whether Neil Bush get another signature , but when 
D-Colo.'s a live proposal . 
Feighan wrote in a letter to Attorney General Dick Thornburgh , `` Although Edward F. Feighan had originally signed a draft of this request , Edward F. Feighan notified the authors of the letter earlier today that Edward F. Feighan name and signature should be withdrawn from the document that would be delivered to Andrea Camp , a spokeswoman for Rep. Pat Schroeder , D-Colo. , who is organizing the Democratic effort . 
Edward F. Feighan did not indicate why Edward F. Feighan had changed Edward F. Feighan mind 
And Democratic House Speaker Thomas S. Foley lashed back at a Republican official's accusation that the Democrats were to blame for a national S&L crisis expected to cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars 
Ed Rollins , chairman of the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee , said the Democrats had sold out `` for a few million dollars in campaign contributions . 
But the normally mild-mannered Foley , D-Wash. , angrily dismissed Rollins as `` in a panic ... an out of control person '' making an `` unrestrained and totally raw partisan accusation . 
Tempers on all sides have risen as more attention has been given to Neil Bush , who faces a public disciplinary hearing before federal regulators in September on Neil Bush role as a director of the bankrupt Silverado Banking , Savings and Loan 
Neil Bush has been accused of conflict of interest but has said Neil Bush has done nothing wrong 
Neil Bush father , the president , has twice defended the president 's `` honor and integrity '' during news conferences but has promised to stay out of the investigation 
Neil Bush's statement to federal regulators is contained in a deposition included in documents released by the Office of Thrift Supervision 
Neil Bush 's statement to federal regulators was first reported Friday in The Denver Post 
Asked by the regulators whether a member of the board anything about the goings had ever discussed operations of the S&L with a member of the board anything about the goings father , the younger Bush replied : `` a member of the board anything about the goings did n't discuss details with the S&L 
And if the S&L inquired about Silverado , Neil Bush 's statement to federal regulators would have been very rare , a member of the board anything about the goings mean if at all , and a member of the board anything about the goings do n't know if a member of the board anything about the goings ever voluntarily disclosed to the S&L when a member of the board anything about the goings was a member of the board anything about the goings on of Silverado . 
the S&L added , `` the S&L never , the S&L can state this with great clarity , that the S&L never intentionally brought a member of the board anything about the goings into , you know , the S&L mean the S&L never asked a member of the board anything about the goings for assistance or advice on Silverado matters . 
In response to the regulators ' questions , Neil Bush said no one had suggested to Neil Bush what Neil Bush testimony on any matter should be 
Schroeder one of the petition signers among the Democrats on the Judiciary Committee , said their request for a special prosecutor was made because `` the people have a right to feel federal regulators 're doing everything to get impartial justice done . 
the Democrats on the Judiciary Committee said there is a public sense that in the S&L mess and now the aftermath , `` the S&L mess's who Schroeder one of the petition signers among the Democrats on the Judiciary Committee know , not what Schroeder one of the petition signers among the Democrats on the Judiciary Committee know or what Schroeder one of the petition signers among the Democrats on the Judiciary Committee 've done . 
Justice Department spokesman Dan Eramian said , `` The letter is under consideration as provided for under the independent counsel statutes . 
Thornburgh has 15 days to decide whether to open a preliminary inquiry to determine if a special prosecutor should be appointed , then another 15 days to tell Congress how a special prosecutor acted on a preliminary inquiry request 
Dick Thornburgh has 90 days from start of the preliminary inquiry to determine whether to appoint an independent counsel 
Ashley , a former Democratic congressman from Ohio , said Friday , `` Ashley 've talked to the president (about his son's situation )on a couple of social occasions , when we 're alone 
... Ashley talk about the kids 
Neil's one of the kids . 
Ashley said that Neil Bush own experience in politics and in bank regulation made Neil Bush a good source of advice for Neil Bush 
`` The situation is such that Neil Bush ca n't go to Neil Bush father and talk to Neil Bush , '' Ashley said 
Ashley , who was a college classmate of George Bush's at Yale , denied President Bush had asked Neil Bush to intervene 
a college classmate of George Bush 's said , `` If Neil thinks Neil Bush father called a college classmate of George Bush 's , Neil Bush's mistaken . 
Ashley , 67 , is president of the Association of Bank Holding Companies , a banking lobbying organization based in Washington 
The organization generally does not get involved in savings and loan issues , Ashley said 
president of the Association of Bank Holding Companies , a banking lobbying organization based in Washington said president of the Association of Bank Holding Companies , a banking lobbying organization based in Washington contacted Neil Bush on his own last winter after reading about president of the Association of Bank Holding Companies , a banking lobbying organization based in Washington troubles in newspapers 
Since then , `` Ashley 've seen Neil a half dozen times 
We talk about his own last winter , '' Ashley said 
Neil Bush said Neil Bush is not trying to serve as a go-between for Neil Bush and the president , nor trying to influence any decisions 
`` Ashley 'm too smart for that , '' Ashley said 
Ashley and Bush have remained close friends since Ashley were both members of the secret society Skull and Bones while Ashley were undergraduates at Yale University in the late 1940s 
`` Is everyone who is close to the president supposed to stay away from Neil ? 
Ashley asked 
President Bush `` does n't go along with that 
Neil Bush rejects that , '' the former lawmaker added 
Ashley said that Neil Bush has made up Neil Bush own mind in the matter , including Neil Bush decision to fight the case and refusal to negotiate an out-of-court settlement 
`` Neil Bush 'm a good sounding board , '' Neil Bush said 
`` a good sounding board's not a partisan matter or the former lawmaker would n't be coming to a Democrat . 
