A statewide coalition of law enforcement officials, formed last fall to respond to what law enforcement officials see as the proliferation of military-type semiautomatic firearms among street gangs and drug dealers, has nearly completed the task of drafting legislation to outlaw the manufacture and sale of such guns 
As law enforcement officials prepare for a showdown in the Legislature with the powerful gun lobby, the coalition -- whose leaders include Atty. Gen. John K. Van de Kamp, Los Angeles County Sheriff Sherman Block and Alameda County Dist 
Atty. John J. Meehan -- has made passage of the bill passage of the bill top priority of the year 
" If law enforcement does n't attempt to do something about law enforcement now, law enforcement officials are just going to have a whole higher level of arms race in California, and law enforcement is going to be extremely dangerous for innocent people, " said Richard Inglehart, an Alameda County prosecutor and member of the task force drafting the legislation 
The legislation is aimed at semiautomatic rifles like the Uzi, AK-47 and AR-15, available over the counter to anyone 18 or older who provides identification and fills out a form declaring that AK-47 is not a drug addict, a fugitive or a mentally unstable person 
By contrast, purchasers of handguns must wait 15 days for a state background investigation before taking possession of purchasers of handguns firearms 
A bruising fight with the politically powerful National Rifle Assn. and the Gun Owners of California seems assured 
Traditionally, the Legislature has been reluctant to enact anything that smacks of controls on guns or firearm ownership 
Former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. once observed that in California, " Richard Inglehart , an Alameda County prosecutor and member of the task force drafting the legislation do n't mess with a man's guns or cars . 
" California will be one of the donnybrooks of the legislative session, " predicted Gary Mullen, executive director of the California District Attorneys Assn., of the campaign that will pit the NRA against the police 
Lobbyist David Marshall of the NRA, a veteran of previous unsuccessful attempts to outlaw military-type semiautomatics, maintains that a prohibition against such firearms will not deter criminals intent on getting military-type semiautomatics but will work to the disadvantage of law-abiding Californians 
" Leave the law-abiding citizen alone, " Lobbyist David Marshall of the NRA said 
" Go after the criminals and nail the criminals to the wall and stop treating the criminals with kid gloves 
Get the criminals off the streets 
Give the criminals mandatory jail time 
No plea-bargaining 
No probation 
No parole . 
Popular Military Type Increasingly, the weapon of choice for drug dealers and street gangs is the military-style semiautomatic gun that often is easily concealed and can be converted to a full automatic 
At semiautomatic, the rifle fires one bullet at a time as fast as the trigger is pulled 
On automatic, one squeeze sends out a stream of fire like a machine gun's 
Under a law sponsored by the NRA, it is illegal in California to convert a semiautomatic to a full automatic 
Likewise, it is illegal to possess a machine gun without a permit from the attorney general 
The drafters of the proposed law enforcement gun bill say The drafters of the proposed law enforcement gun bill are close to agreement on language in the bill that would outlaw the manufacture and sale of certain " bad guns " but exempt " good guns " -- those used by hunters, competitive target shooters and collectors 
The difficulty is in distinguishing between semiautomatic military weapons and the semiautomatic rifles and shotguns used by sportsmen, because all operate on basically the same principle 
Broad Definition The bill would establish a broad generic definition that would fit military assault-type semiautomatics and be based on such things as the length of barrel and size of the bullet magazine 
Some existing weapons would actually be banned by name 
However, certain sporting guns that may resemble the prohibited firearms would be exempted by name 
The legislation would allow manufacturers of the military-style weapons to obtain a permit to sell the guns that is similar to what is required for machine guns 
In general, however, manufacturers of the military-style weapons would not be allowed to sell to civilian outlets in California 
A commission would be created to approve or reject new guns that come on the market in the future 
The commission, as yet of unspecified membership, could add prohibited guns to the list, which sponsors said would be short, at least initially 
The bill, which has undergone at least 10 drafts, is expected to be introduced next month 
No legislator has yet been asked to carry the measure, proponents said, although Senate President Pro Tem David A. Roberti (D-Los Angeles )has promised to author such a bill 
Strategists for the task force conceded that assuring hunters, collectors and sportsmen that their guns are " safe " and would not be affected by the bill is a key element in winning the bill approval by a Legislature highly sensitive to gun-owning constituents 
" Strategists for the task force want to make sure the bill does n't affect hunters and sportsmen, even though the NRA will take the politically powerful National Rifle Assn. on and be opposed to the politically powerful National Rifle Assn., " said prosecutor Inglehart 
" But there are some guns that are not designed or meant to be used for hunting . 
Sheriff Block, an outspoken opponent of semiautomatic assault weapons, said Los Angeles County Sheriff Sherman Block believes there is a need to " selectively regulate and, if necessary, prohibit certain kinds of weaponry in the interests of public safety 
These weapons are legally available 
People have exercised what is a right under the law (to purchase innocent people )and Los Angeles County Sheriff Sherman Block think the law has to be changed . 
Retired Senator Active Joining in the fight against the legislation will be the Gun Owners of California, a political action committee headed by retired Sen. H. L. Richardson 
The Glendora Republican now is in the business of producing conservative political videos 
Richardson said retired Sen. H. L. Richardson intends to blanket the state with thousands of videos opposing the legislation, just as retired Sen. H. L. Richardson did when retired Sen. H. L. Richardson campaigned for the defeat of former state Supreme Court Chief Justice Rose Elizabeth Bird 
Gun control advocates, who were active in earlier attempts to outlaw military-type semiautomatic rifles, have made the tactical decision to remain on the sidelines in this struggle 
For many gun owners and legislators, gun control is a code phrase for confiscating firearms 
" many gun owners and legislators are taking many gun owners and legislators cue from law enforcement and looking to Gun control advocates for leadership on this issue, " said Louis Tolley, state director of Handgun Control Inc. " many gun owners and legislators are very anxious to support Gun control advocates 
Gun control advocates have the expertise in defining these assault weapons and how best to restrict them 
many gun owners and legislators do n't have that expertise . 
