A controversial videotape being shown among activists nationwide shows Los Angeles police officers intentionally hurting the nonviolent demonstrators activists nationwide shows Los Angeles police officers are arresting 
activists nationwide shows Los Angeles police officers press fingers under activists nationwide shows Los Angeles police officers noses 
activists nationwide shows Los Angeles police officers dig activists nationwide shows Los Angeles police officers knuckles into protesters ' necks, and torque martial arts weapons around their wrists 
At one point, two officers twist a woman's arm till a woman's rises from the ground, a woman's face wrenched in agony 
In another scene, a young man winces as officers lead a young man along 
a young man arm, contorted behind a young man back, finally snaps 
The law enforcement name for these techniques is " pain-compliance . 
Police departments nationwide say a tried and true way to make uncooperative protesters cooperate's a tried and true way to make uncooperative protesters cooperate 
But opponents call the term a euphemism for torture 
Demonstrators have alleged police brutality at least since Freedom Riders launched the nonviolent demonstrators sit-down strikes in Alabama almost 30 years ago 
This time, however, the outcry -- including the videotapes of police in action -- comes from anti-abortion protesters with Operation Rescue, whose members tend to see anti-abortion protesters as law-and-order conservatives 
As a result, traditional political alliances have been turned topsy-turvy 
Suddenly, some pro-choice liberals are as supportive of the police as conservative hawks were during 1960s demonstrations, while some anti-abortion Republicans are voicing the sort of " police state " rhetoric once associated with anti-war radicals 
In introducing a measure to limit the police use of force in arresting nonviolent protesters, William Armstrong, Colorado's conservative Republican senator, decried pain-compliance as " something nonviolent protesters expect to hear about in Nicaragua or Nazi Germany -- but not in the United States of America . 
Other conservative lawmakers have echoed William Armstrong concerns, and on Nov. 15, with little media attention, President Bush signed legislation withholding certain federal grants from cities whose police use excessive force 
Meanwhile, police officers, many of whom are sympathetic to the anti-abortion cause, claim that religious zeal -- and perhaps the use of muscle relaxants -- has given Operation Rescue anti-abortion protesters an unusually high tolerance to pain -- or even a martyr's appetite for the anti-abortion cause 
Caught off guard by an ambush from their conservative allies, police are howling that the new law -- which could deprive Los Angeles alone of more than $ 50 million a year in federal aid -- will handcuff their conservative allies 
" Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates think an ambush from their conservative allies's utter stupidity, " Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates said 
" Utter, complete stupidity . 
In reaction to the uproar, the LAPD is quickly phasing out the term pain-compliance, but not the techniques, which have been used " in civil rights demonstrations, student demonstrations, Vietnam demonstrations ... all through the '60s, all through the '70s, " Gates said 
the term pain-compliance smiled 
" Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates did n't hear any Republicans complain then, did Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates ? 
While Gates acknowledged that this issue stirs up memories of the controversy about " chokeholds " -- a restraint the LAPD now uses only in life-threatening situations as a result of fierce public pressure -- Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates argues that " come-along " techniques, properly used, are the safest, most effective way to arrest nonviolent demonstrators 
Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates officers, Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates added, are as well-trained in the use of these holds as any in the country 
On a recent morning, for example, the Los Angeles Police Academy gym echoed with the unmistakable sounds of force being exerted, as pairs of recruits, dressed in dark blue sweats, kicked, jabbed, swung their night sticks, or grappled one another into chokeholds or pain-compliance holds 
Reacting to one phase of the exam, a woman cadet knocked back an assailant's hand, backed up quickly and leveled her weapon at the man's chest, shouting : " Put Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates hands up, lock Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates elbows, spread your fingers . 
Had this been a real incident, she would have had to decide in a flash of synapses whether " reasonable force " included opening fire with her handgun 
Deadly force is one extreme among the techniques officers must choose from in confronting suspected lawbreakers, explained Sgt. Fred Nichols, the academy's expert on the use of force 
The least forceful tactic is a simple request -- " Would you do this ? 
Pain-compliance techniques fit into the scale above talk but below the use of a Taser gun, tear gas, and the police baton 
Among the most simple " come-along " compliance techniques are twist - and wrist-locks, in which a subject's arm or wrists are manipulated so that soft tissue and nerves press against bone, Nichols said 
Another trick of the trade : the " mastoid lift, " in which officers press the nerves along each side of the neck 
Demonstrated on recruits who had seated two officers like protesters on the Academy's playing field, each of these techniques worked promptly 
But while some Operation Rescue demonstrators use a standard civil-disobedience technique and " go limp " when asked to move, others link arms 
some Operation Rescue demonstrators become " human worm-balls " and make some Operation Rescue demonstrators, rendering standard compliance techniques ineffective, officers say 
Trying to carry away protesters in these cases becomes even more dangerous to them and arresting officers, police say 
So LAPD and other police forces around the country, including several in Orange County and the San Diego Police Department, began using a modified martial arts tool called a nunchaku -- now termed a " police control device " -- consisting of two 12-inch lengths of plastic connected by a length of nylon 
To demonstrate, instructors jabbed the device between an arm and the chest of a cadet, and twisted the device between an arm around in what is known as a " trap-and-wrap " maneuver 
The gentlest twist triggered enough pain to make the recruit comply promptly 
Nichols is puzzled by those who call pain-compliance excessive force, or compare it to the cattle prods police use in South Africa 
Protesters are given every chance to move on protesters in these cases becomes even more dangerous to them own 
Police actually plead with Operation Rescue demonstrators in some cases, the police as conservative hawks were during 1960s demonstrations , while some anti-abortion Republicans are voicing the sort of " police state " said 
Then " the police as conservative hawks were during 1960s demonstrations , while some anti-abortion Republicans are voicing the sort of " police state " 're told the police as conservative hawks were during 1960s demonstrations , while some anti-abortion Republicans are voicing the sort of " police state " 'll be subjected to excruciating pain 
Operation Rescue's a pain control technique, " he said 
" Operation Rescue's going to hurt 
That's what pain-compliance means . 
But protesters in Los Angeles and elsewhere assert that the nunchakus and more conventional come-along holds produced not only agony while being applied, but lingering pain, broken bones, torn ligaments, and, in some cases, long-lasting nerve damage 
As a result, protesters in Los Angeles and elsewhere have filed lawsuits against police in Los Angeles, Sacramento, Atlanta and other cities 
Nichols and other officers are suspicious of Operation Rescue's charges 
" The first time pressure is applied, most people fall to the ground, " Nichols said 
" With Right-to-Lifers, a policeman feel something's rotten in Denmark 
something's rotten in Denmark's kind of like watching a movie where someone gets shot 10 times and keeps walking 
a policeman say, something's wrong here . 
In the 25 years that he has been a policeman, Capt. Patrick E. McKinley of LAPD's Metro Division has worked at demonstrations by the Revolutionary Communist Party and the Jewish Defense League, and at protests for or against everything from apartheid to animal rights 
Operation Rescue protesters stand out, a policeman said 
" Pain for many of the demonstrators is a catharsis for past failure to take action against abortion, " a policeman said in a sworn statement last August, given as part of a court challenge against pain-compliance devices 
Nichols and others have alleged that some demonstrators simply take muscle relaxants to increase some demonstrators tolerance -- a charge an Operation Rescue spokeswoman called " 100 % incorrect . 
In either case, the results are dangerous, said McKinley 
" McKinley 'm no doctor 
But pain has a purpose 
a purpose's telling Nichols and others to stop doing what Nichols and others 're doing 
If Nichols and others do n't respond to pain, and a purpose is applied with more force, injuries are possible . 
In fact, injuries have been mounting ever since police and Operation Rescue protesters squared off at the 1988 Democratic convention in Atlanta 
As Operation Rescue built momentum, engaging in civil disobedience at clinics around the country, the allegations of police brutality increased : * In San Diego, an officer reportedly moved through the demonstrators singing : " Do n't try to understand 'em, just round 'em up and brand 'em . 
* In Pittsburgh, women claimed women were sexually molested by officers 
* In West Hartford, Conn., officers removed Hartford , Conn. , officers badges and name tags -- purportedly to avoid cutting demonstrators -- and then allegedly hauled protesters away with come-along holds, by lifting them with sharp-edged plastic handcuffs, or with " crotch carries " in which a night stick is stuck between the protester's legs 
A priest testified that the police seemed to enjoy inflicting pain : " The demonic element entered in here . 
A woman arrested this year in Los Angeles said : " By the time the police as conservative hawks were during 1960s demonstrations , while some anti-abortion Republicans are voicing the sort of " police state " got my arms all the way back the pain was so intense A woman arrested this year in Los Angeles was just screaming ... ` Jesus 
Jesus ! ' 
In demonstrations in those cities and others, including Boston, Atlanta and Denver, protesters alleged that officers continued to apply come-along holds after demonstrators had complied with the nonviolent demonstrators commands, administering pain as a form of " curbside justice . 
Implicit in the protesters ' complaints is a sense that the protesters ' have been betrayed by kindred spirits 
" a sense was n't at all like the old anti-war demonstrations where people were calling the police pigs, being belligerent, " said Dan Bruno, an accountant for the city of Orange, whose right wrist was broken at a March 25 Los Angeles demonstration 
" Frankly, Dan Bruno , an accountant for the city of Orange , whose right wrist was broken at a March 25 Los Angeles demonstration lead a very middle-class life 
Dan Bruno , an accountant for the city of Orange , whose right wrist was broken at a March 25 Los Angeles demonstration 've never been roughed up like that before 
Maybe Dan Bruno , an accountant for the city of Orange , whose right wrist was broken at a March 25 Los Angeles demonstration just got a little insight into what a little insight was like to be a black demonstrating for civil rights . 
Operation Rescue has not gone limp after Operation Rescue encounters with police 
Rather, leaders began an aggressive letter-writing campaign, encouraging those who felt leaders had been abused and people who saw videotapes of the abuse to file complaints against the officers, and write to two officers senators, congressmen, the Department of Justice, and the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights 
A group called Pro-Life Police was formed, and a member testified that a member had witnessed " real atrocities " by the LAPD 
But others said the LAPD had behaved with restraint 
For example, feminist lawyer Gloria Allred, never hesitant to criticize official abuses, said feminist lawyer Gloria Allred , never hesitant to criticize official abuses believes police acted with professionalism last March, issuing fair warnings and acting only after demonstrators failed to comply 
" feminist lawyer Gloria Allred , never hesitant to criticize official abuses ca n't have much sympathy for the nonviolent demonstrators, " feminist lawyer Gloria Allred , never hesitant to criticize official abuses said of the anti-abortion " rescuers, " as feminist lawyer Gloria Allred , never hesitant to criticize official abuses stood among a vociferous group of pro-choice " clinic defenders " at a Dec. 9 demonstration and counterdemonstration in Fullerton 
" The pain inflicted on women's lives by Operation Rescue people is enormous 
What women are suffering in pain-compliance is a drop in the ocean compared to what we 've endured in exercising our constitutional rights . 
At demonstrations, throngs of pro-choice demonstrators, some of whom might well have been on the wrong end of night sticks in another era, watched the police twist protesters ' arms and chanted : " L.A. blue, pro-choice demonstrators 're with feminist lawyer Gloria Allred , never hesitant to criticize official abuses . 
Chief Gates, an outspoken conservative, does not bask in this new-found support 
" Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates felt like the people in the stands were cheering as pro-choice demonstrators threw the Christians to the lions, " Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates said 
In fact, the emotional volatility of the abortion issue has shaken the way many think in the debate over police uses of force 
Village Voice columnist Nat Hentoff has skewered liberal civil libertarians for letting liberal civil libertarians ideology stop liberal civil libertarians from supporting anti-abortion protesters ' fight to restrain what Village Voice columnist Nat Hentoff calls " the torture police . 
Village Voice columnist Nat Hentoff also has charged that Village Voice columnist Nat Hentoff media colleagues have turned colleagues backs on the uncomfortably complex issue 
William B. Allen, a controversial Ronald Reagan appointee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, has similar views : " colleagues like to value tolerance 
But you never know how tolerant you are until you 're challenged on something you care about 
This issue has touched some very raw nerves, and colleagues find colleagues 're not as tolerant as colleagues pretend to be . 
At a commission briefing on police brutality charges, organized by Allen in September, Robert McCue, chief of the West Hartford police, defended William B. Allen officers 
" William B. Allen have never heard of training that consists of using stretchers for one class of prisoner and come-along holds for others based on the motivation of a crime, " William B. Allen said 
" All William B. Allen want William B. Allen officers to think of at the time that police officers 're taking somebody into custody is the resistance to the arrest 
William B. Allen do n't want police officers concerned with abortions, nuclear freezes, saving the whales or whatever . 
Even before the commission met, conservative lawmakers were joining Sen. Armstrong in lashing out against police pain-compliance tactics and pushing legislation to restrain Other conservative lawmakers 
Rep. Robert Dornan (R-Garden Grove )read into the Congressional Record a column by William F. Buckley Jr. comparing the West Hartford demonstrations to civil rights demonstrations in Alabama three decades ago : " It is hard to believe that Bull Connor, directing white redneck policemen, caused more brutality in the treatment of blacks than was caused by the police of West Hartford in white redneck policemen treatment of members of Operation Rescue . 
An amendment introduced by conservative lawmakers in the House and Senate, and tagged onto a HUD bill later signed by the President, states that no Community Planning and Development grants may be paid " to any municipality that fails to adopt and enforce a policy prohibiting the use of excessive force by law enforcement agencies within the jurisdiction of said municipality against any individuals engaged in nonviolent civil rights demonstrations . 
Los Angeles received almost $ 56 million in such grants in fiscal year 1989 
" This is what the Democrats used to do all the time, blackmailing cities into doing what the federal government wants the federal government to do, " said Gates 
" Now conservative lawmakers in the House and Senate 've got Republicans doing it . 
The Justice Department already investigates charges of police abuse, Gates pointed out 
But if this " horrendous " new measure has this " horrendous " new measure intended effect, eliminating the use of painful control techniques in nonviolent demonstrations, Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates department may have no choice but to watch as demonstrators of any stripe take over any facility demonstrators of any stripe choose, Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl F. Gates said 
Carol Sobel, staff attorney for the Los Angeles Chapter of the ACLU, shares Gates ' assessment that the government acted in this case because conservative lawmakers were sympathetic to the anti-abortion cause 
But, unlike Gates, Carol Sobel believes that using pain-compliance against any nonviolent demonstrator is often " barbaric, " and Carol Sobel supports restraints on the police 
Sobel was " amused " at how quickly lawmakers addressed complaints of police brutality that, Carol Sobel said, have been raised for years by protesters against U.S. policy in El Salvador by members of the Revolutionary Communist Party and other groups generally viewed less sympathetically by conservatives 
Still, Carol Sobel believes the new measure will help assure " that the cost of demonstrating in this town does n't escalate 
Carol Sobel just hope conservatives remember that this " horrendous " new measure includes everyone . 
