Charles H. Keating Jr. does n't flinch when asked if the Senate panel 's current chairman , Donald W. Riegle Jr. financial support of politicians is intended to influence politicians to take up the Senate panel 's current chairman , Donald W. Riegle Jr. cause 
`` the Senate panel 's current chairman , Donald W. Riegle Jr. want to say in the most forceful way the Senate panel 's current chairman , Donald W. Riegle Jr. can , the Senate panel 's current chairman , Donald W. Riegle Jr. certainly hope so , '' Keating recently proclaimed 
Keating practices what Mr. Keating preaches 
A review of campaign records by The Times shows that Keating , his companies and a circle of about 75 family members , associates and employees have showered more than $ 700,000 in campaign contributions on three dozen federal and state politicians over the last six years 
Keating's contributions have come under increased scrutiny since his company , American Continental Corp. of Phoenix , filed for protection from creditors in U.S. Bankruptcy Court on April 13 and Lincoln Savings & Loan , Lincoln Savings & Loan principal subsidiary , was seized by federal regulators the next day 
Critics charge that Keating and associates have coordinated Keating , his companies and a circle of about 75 family members , associates and employees contributions in a deliberate effort to buy influence with powerful politicians 
As evidence , Critics cite donations of about $ 300,000 to five U.S. senators who went to bat in April , 1987 , for Keating in two unusual private meetings with savings and loan regulators 
` Concerned ' About Seizure And one of those senators , Democrat Alan Cranston of California , said Friday that Democrat Alan Cranston of California intervened again a month ago by urging federal regulators to allow Keating to sell Mr. Keating embattled S&L to a group headed by former Republican Rep. John Rousselot of San Gabriel 
Cranston said Cranston was concerned that the seizure would adversely affect the Arizona economy and hurt American Continental bondholders , most of whom are Californians 
He and the other senators denied that Keating's contributions influenced their actions on behalf of Lincoln 
But others are not so sure 
`` behalf of Lincoln's absolutely clear to the Senate panel 's current chairman , Donald W. Riegle Jr. that Mr. Keating and Mr. Keating cohorts had lots of help from the highest quarters , both financially and politically , '' said Joseph W. Cotchett Jr. , an attorney representing American Continental bondholders who may have lost $ 200 million as a result of the bankruptcy filing 
`` Mr. Keating did n't show any favorites when behalf of Lincoln came to political parties , '' Cotchett said 
Many of the recipients of Keating's largess have been in positions to help him in his business affairs and his escalating encounters with savings and loan regulators 
And Keating is certainly in need of help these days 
As chairman of American Continental , a Phoenix real estate development firm , chairman of American Continental , a Phoenix real estate development firm acquired Lincoln , which is based in Irvine , in early 1984 and began transforming American Continental Corp. of Phoenix from a traditional thrift into a more freewheeling S&L 
Keating supplemented Lincoln's traditional home loans with investments in high-yield securities and riskier real estate ventures 
Federal regulators , outraged by losses at similar S&Ls across the country , spent much of the last three years poring over the books of Lincoln and American Continental 
On April 13 , apparently sensing an imminent showdown , American Continental filed April 13 bankruptcy petition 
The next day , federal regulators seized Lincoln , claiming that Keating and American Continental were operating the S&L in an unsafe and unsound manner 
The recipients of contributions from Keating's circle include liberal Democrats like Cranston and former presidential hopeful Walter Mondale 
But most of the money went to the Republican Party and GOP stalwarts like Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah , who shares Keating's brand of staunch conservatism 
For Keating , campaign contributions are one way that the American political system is made more responsive to its constituents 
one way that the American political system is made more responsive to its constituents is practiced by executives at major corporations across the land 
It is something Mr. Keating has been doing since the 1950s 
Outspoken Critic In 1957 , Keating plodded through the halls of Congress in search of allies in the war on pornography , a personal political crusade that Outspoken Critic still pursues 
In 1980 , Outspoken Critic briefly ran the 1980 presidential campaign of former Texas Gov. John B. Connally 
Connally's son , Mark , now is American Continental's spokesman 
Today , Keating contends that Mr. Keating contributions merely give Mr. Keating a fighting chance against hostile regulators who drove American Continental into bankruptcy proceedings because hostile regulators did n't like Mr. Keating unconventional business strategies and Mr. Keating outspoken criticism of the regulatory structure 
Elected officials , Mr. Keating has claimed , ought to come to Mr. Keating aid when the government bureaucracy runs amok with the government bureaucracy regulatory authority 
`` officials support and campaign for the political leaders officials believe will represent the best of American virtues , '' Mr. Keating told reporters last month 
`` In the contract between the voter and the politician , officials have the right to seek their help when needed and demand their help when justified 
the voter have done . 
And the voter has done the contract between the voter and the politician in a big way , with the help of the voter firms , family members , business associates and employees 
In the last five years , state and federal campaign records show : * More than $ 100,000 has gone to Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz . 
and more than $ 55,000 to Sen. Dennis DeConcini (D-Ariz . 
, both of Keating's home state 
Congressmen from Arizona also have fared well , including Jon Kyl (R-Ariz . 
, who has received $ 20,950 while representing the district Keating lives in 
* More than $ 52,000 has gone to the two California senators -- Cranston and Republican Pete Wilson -- who represent Lincoln's home base 
Sen. John Glenn (D-Ohio )has picked up $ 34,500 from Keating's circle 
Keating was born in Ohio , and American Continental is incorporated there 
* Nearly $ 166,000 has gone to 11 members of the Senate and House banking committees , where deregulation of the savings and loan industry was conceived and implemented in recent years , much to the dismay of some regulators 
The largest amount , more than $ 70,000 , was given to the Senate panel's current chairman , Donald W. Riegle Jr. (D-Mich . 

Other members who received donations are Cranston , who got $ 39,100 ; Jacob (Chic )Hecht (R-Nev . 
, $ 19,000 ; Timothy E. Wirth (D-Colo . 
, $ 8,000 ; William L. Armstrong (R-Colo . 
, $ 7,000 ; Phil Gramm (R-Texas ), $ 1,000 , and Jacob Garn (R-Utah ), $ 1,000 
House committee members were Reps. Doug Barnard Jr. (D-Ga . 
, $ 16,000 ; Frank Annunzio (D-Ill . 
, $ 1,000 ; Stephen L. Neal (D-N.C . 
, $ 1,000 , and Fernand J. St Germain (D-R.I. ), $ 500 
* At the California Statehouse , where gubernatorial appointees oversee Lincoln operations , Keating money has added $ 41,000 to Gov. George Deukmejian's campaign coffers in the last four years 
* Keating and associates pumped $ 80,000 into the California Republican Party last fall alone 
Altogether , Mr. Keating has given the state GOP $ 97,500 in the last four years and has given $ 3,000 to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee 
Such `` soft '' donations allow contributors to get around federal individual contribution limits of $ 1,000 per candidate per election 
`` In the last five years , there's no question that the last five years has been important that contributors help those who supported the business areas contributors were in , '' Keating said in an interview last week 
`` Mr. Keating 've always contributed across a broad spectrum of philosophical and political boundaries 
But from Mr. Keating background , to do business (throughout )America , you need to be politically aware . 
Does n't Recall Mondale Gift With so much money flowing to so many candidates over so many years , Keating apparently can not keep track of the politicians who benefited from Mr. Keating fund-raising efforts 
Mr. Keating does not recall -- and acted surprised when reminded -- that Mr. Keating and Mr. Keating family gave $ 2,500 to Mondale's 1984 presidential campaign 
Mondale `` definitely has diverse views from Mr. Keating , '' said Keating , a conservative Republican 
presidential hopeful Walter Mondale said presidential hopeful Walter Mondale probably responded to someone raising money for Mondale's campaign in the hope that presidential hopeful Walter Mondale could solicit that person later for funds for one of his own favored politicians 
Interestingly , Keating made no direct contributions in 1984 to one candidate who seemed to embody Mr. Keating conservative politics : President Ronald Reagan 
Likewise , four years later , Keating did not contribute to President George Bush's campaign , although American Continental gave $ 80,000 to the California Republican Party 
This money , which does not come under federal or state contribution limitations , was used for voter-registration and get-out-the-vote efforts that benefited Bush 
Keating has never been bashful about Mr. Keating political persuasion 
And Mr. Keating has not hesitated to encourage employees to contribute to candidates who support deregulation of financial services , the bulwark upon which Mr. Keating business empire is built 
One former executive of an American Continental subsidiary who requested anonymity said he made his only political donation ever -- $ 500 -- in 1987 because One former executive of an American Continental subsidiary who requested anonymity said he made his only political donation ever -- $ 500 -- in 1987 was made aware by Keating that Sen. Riegle was `` in line philosophically with the business Mr. Keating were running . 
Riegle also was second in line at the time to take over as chairman of the Senate Banking Committee , which Sen. Riegle now heads 
Keating frequently invited employees into the company's dining room to hear various politicians , said Deborah Karbo , a former vice president of another company subsidiary 
After Riegle stopped by for a quick visit in March , 1987 , Deborah Karbo contributed $ 500 to Sen. Riegle campaign 
No Pressure Both former employees said their gift-giving was `` entirely discretionary , '' as Karbo put their gift-giving 
The other former executive said there was `` never any pressure '' to contribute 
Keating said Mr. Keating `` never put the arm '' on anyone to make contributions 
Although the donors may have reached independent decisions , the donors tended to reach the donors at the same time 
For example , 51 donations from Keating , family members and associates were made to McCain on the same day : March 17 , 1986 
And a March 23 , 1987 , fund-raiser for Riegle netted 86 checks from Keating's circle 
More than a third of those checks were executed on one day , March 12 , and all but two of the rest were written on one of two other days that month 
Walter Zelman , executive director of California Common Cause , said it is n't uncommon to see a large number of executives at a major firm contributing to a number of politicians 
But , Zelman noted , `` when the numbers get real large , there's a question of whether individuals are coerced or even encouraged to contribute . 
Walter Zelman said that encouraging contributions `` gets borderline illegal really fast . 
Keating lashed out at those who would criticize Mr. Keating for legitimate fund-raising activities , saying the public is being `` bullied into not contributing '' to political campaigns by people who question every donation 
Timing of Contributions In Mr. Keating case , Mr. Keating said , regulators are raising the campaign contribution issue to hold senators and congressmen in check while the federal agencies deal with Lincoln Savings 
But critics contend that Keating has simply used donated dollars to get politicians to do Mr. Keating bidding 
And the timing of the contributions raises questions about Mr. Keating motives 
Riegle and Keating , for instance , met in Detroit on March 1 , 1986 , when Riegle attended the reopening of the renovated Pontchartrain Hotel , which Lincoln owned 
A fund-raiser on March 23 , 1987 , netted Riegle more than $ 70,000 , which Riegle returned a year later after Keating's contributions became a public issue 
Riegle was one of five senators who met with regulators on April 9 , 1987 , to find out why a routine examination of Lincoln's financial condition was taking more than a year instead of the normal two to three months 
Riegle's closest aide , Kevin Gottlieb , said the senator attended only at the written request of two colleagues , DeConcini and McCain 
Cranston and Glenn also were at that meeting 
Never before , top regulators say , had top regulators seen an S&L owner who had enough political pull to get five U.S. senators to meet with federal examiners about a problem 
At an earlier meeting , Cranston , McCain , DeConcini and Glenn had met with Edwin J. Gray , head of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board 
Gray later claimed that the four senators tried to cut a deal for Keating 
Edwin J. Gray termed the effort a `` gross violation of the integrity of the regulatory process ... for the benefit of one person who happened to be a friend and contributor . 
Deny Impropriety The senators or the four senators aides denied that any deal was offered or discussed 
Glenn said Sen. John Glenn -LRB- D-Ohio -RRB- met only to find out why a constituent was having a problem with an unusually long regulatory examination 
DeConcini's press secretary , Bob Maynes , said Gray `` has a terrible memory or DeConcini 's press secretary , Bob Maynes's a liar . 
All of the senators involved said there was no impropriety in taking money from Keating and his fund-raisers and then representing Mr. Keating in a dispute with agency officials , something his fund-raisers said his fund-raisers do for all his fund-raisers constituents 
Gottlieb said Riegle returned the money in March , 1988 , only because local papers had written about the money and the senator did not want the money to become a campaign issue 
An individual `` does not suddenly become ineligible for any kind of constituent help because he's made a political contribution , '' Maynes said 
In an Orange County Superior Court lawsuit , however , bondholders who purchased $ 200 million in apparently worthless American Continental debt securities claim Keating used Mr. Keating political connections to cover up an alleged fraud 
The suit alleges that Keating used politicians -- as well as former government employees Mr. Keating hired or retained -- to keep regulators at bay while Mr. Keating continued to sell junk bonds to unsophisticated depositors 
Keating vehemently denies the claims in the suit , one of several class actions filed in Southern California and Arizona 
Mr. Keating said the bondholders ' only chance at getting any money back is if control of Lincoln is returned to Lincoln 
Regulators have never saved an institution some regulators have seized , Mr. Keating said 
