A lobbyist for former Lincoln Savings & Loan owner Charles H. Keating Jr. 
said Friday that moments after A lobbyist for former Lincoln Savings & Loan owner Charles H. Keating Jr. . first met Sen. Alan Cranston (D-Calif . 
at a political event in 1984, the senator suggested Keating should contribute to Mr. Keating campaign 
James Grogan also told the Senate Ethics Committee he remembers more than one occasion on which Cranston or his aides sought contributions from Keating while at the same time promising to assist Lincoln in its battle against federal regulators 
Cranston has acknowledged only one such conversation 
Grogan, a surprise witness who testified under a limited grant of immunity from prosecution, said there was never a trade-off between Keating's contributions and his request for assistance 
But James Grogan appeared to strengthen the committee's case against both Cranston and Sen. Donald W. Riegle Jr. (D-Mich . 

He provided important new details of Cranston's close alliance with Keating and contradicted earlier testimony by Cranston aides Joy Jacobson and Carolyn D. Jordan 
The panel is investigating charges that Cranston, Riegle and three others -- Sens. Dennis DeConcini (D-Ariz . 
, John McCain (R-Ariz . 
and John Glenn (D-Ohio )-- improperly assisted Keating in exchange for contributions 
Cranston , Riegle and three others intervention with federal regulators allegedly delayed the government takeover of Lincoln, contributing to losses of $ 2 billion by the federally insured thrift 
Grogan, 36, who was paid $ 300,000 a year to lobby for Lincoln, recalled that James Grogan introduced James Grogan to Cranston at an event in 1984, explaining that James Grogan worked for an Arizona builder who had just purchased a savings and loan in California 
James Grogan said Cranston promptly pulled a 3x5 card from Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB- pocket, saying : " James Grogan 've been very good to the savings and loans 
James Grogan 've worked hard for California savings and loans 
You all should really support James Grogan . 
Cranston then wrote Grogan's name and telephone number on the card, Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB- said 
A short time later, according to Grogan, James Grogan received a telephone call from Jacobson, the senator's fund-raiser 
James Grogan said she repeated Cranston's contention that Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB- had been " very supportive " of California thrifts and asked James Grogan if Keating would raise money for the senator 
Grogan indicated James Grogan was surprised by this aggressive appeal for money because Keating is a conservative Republican who opposes abortion, and Cranston is a liberal Democrat who is an abortion rights advocate 
As a result, James Grogan said, James Grogan did not immediately commit Keating to anything during James Grogan first conversation with Jacobson 
James Grogan said James Grogan later persuaded Keating to assist Cranston by telling Mr. Keating that the senator shared the senator negative opinion of then-Federal Home Loan Bank Board Chairman Edwin J. Gray 
Keating disagreed with Gray's policies and later accused the bank board chairman of carrying on a " vendetta " against Lincoln 
In April, 1985, as a result of Cranston's appeal for funds, Keating collected $ 15,000 in checks from Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB- employees for the California senator 
early April was the first of nearly $ 1 million that Cranston solicited from Keating -- $ 60,000 for Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB- campaigns, $ 85,000 for the California Democratic Party and $ 850,000 for voter registration groups founded by the senator 
At the same time, Grogan emphasized that Keating did not always have Cranston's support for Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB- proposals 
James Grogan said contributions could buy James Grogan access to a senator, but the money provided no guarantee that the senator would do the bidding of a contributor 
" For example, " James Grogan told the committee, " Sen. Cranston, whom James Grogan believe voter registration groups founded by the senator gave the most money to, there were several times specifically when James Grogan went to Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB- office and asked Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB-, on behalf of Mr. Keating, to take action 
And Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB- said, ` No, James Grogan ca n't do the Senate Ethics Committee he remembers more than one occasion on which Cranston or his aides sought contributions from Keating while at the same time promising to assist Lincoln in its battle against federal regulators . 
And this was after tremendous amounts of money had been raised for Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB- . 
Grogan contradicted earlier testimony by Jacobson, who said that Sen. Cranston was approached at the 1984 Democratic National Convention by Grogan, who " offered to be helpful to the reelection campaign . 
James Grogan said that Keating, who eventually developed a warm friendship with Cranston, usually waited until the end of Mr. Keating meetings with the senator to discuss contributions 
As Grogan explained a warm friendship : " Normally as we were leaving, either Mr. Keating would say, ` Is there any way James Grogan can help you, senator 
James Grogan appreciate our relationship . 
Or at times, Sen. Cranston would say, ` Could you help in this area, could you help raise money here, could you do that ? ' 
He added : " There was never an occasion where Mr. Keating asked Sen. Cranston to do something, and Sen. Cranston said, ` Only if James Grogan raise funds for me . 
There was never an occasion where Mr. Keating said, ` If James Grogan do this for me, I will raise X-amount of dollars for James Grogan . ' 
Under questioning by special counsel Robert S. Bennett, Grogan detailed the following occasions on which Robert S. Bennett said Cranston or Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB- aides allegedly sought contributions while at the same time pledging to assist Keating with regulators : -- In late 1986, when the Senate was considering legislation that would have imposed restraints on Keating's management of Lincoln, Grogan tried to contact Jordan, Cranston's aide on the Banking Committee, for assistance in battling the proposal 
Unable to reach Jordan, Robert S. Bennett instead talked to Jacobson 
When Jacobson called back an hour later to report that Lincoln in its battle had told Jordan of Keating's opposition, Lincoln in its battle then said Lincoln in its battle wanted to " switch gears " and discuss something " totally unrelated . 
Lincoln in its battle asked Jacobson whether Cranston could get a personal loan for Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB- reelection campaign from Lincoln 
As a result, Cranston's campaign subsequently received a $ 300,000 line of credit from Lincoln that Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB- never used 
-- In September, 1987, Grogan personally delivered two checks totaling $ 250,000 for voter registration to Cranston in Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D-Calif . -RRB- office in the Capitol 
" Mr. Keating wanted James Grogan to give Lincoln in its battle those checks, " James Grogan told the senator 
Grogan and Cranston then discussed Lincoln's problems, with Keating joining the conversation over the office speaker phone 
Keating asked Cranston to contact then-bank board Chairman M. Danny Wall on Lincoln's behalf, and the senator agreed 
-- In January, 1988, Grogan, Keating, Cranston, Cranston's son, Kim, and Kim's then-girlfriend, actress Shelley Duvall, had dinner together at Jimmy's restaurant in Los Angeles 
Kim explained the work of Cranston's voter registration groups, one of which Kim headed, and Cranston offered to make two telephone calls suggested by Keating 
In one call, Cranston arranged a meeting for Keating with Wall 
Cranston has previously acknowledged that both contributions and assistance for Lincoln were discussed at the dinner 
Grogan could not remember any discussion of specific amounts of money that Keating would contribute to the voter registration effort 
Grogan contradicted testimony by Jordan concerning a written statement Lincoln in its battle inserted into the Congressional Record on Cranston's behalf in 1987 that assisted Lincoln in a pending court suit against the bank board 
Jordan told the committee Lincoln in its battle acted entirely on Lincoln in its battle own initiative, but Grogan said Lincoln in its battle was acting on James Grogan request 
Grogan also contradicted Riegle's statement that James Grogan did not arrange meetings between the five senators and federal regulators in early April, 1987 
These meetings have been a central focus of the so-called Keating Five case because the regulators alleged that they were asked improperly by the senators to go easy on Lincoln 
James Grogan said a central focus of the so-called Keating Five case because the regulators alleged that they were asked improperly by the senators to go easy on Lincoln was during Riegle's visit to Keating's headquarters in Phoenix in March, 1987, that the senator first proposed the idea of such meetings 
James Grogan said James Grogan later learned that Riegle had contacted Gray, who consented to meet with the senators 
Grogan said Riegle, who was in line to become chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, had also insisted Sen. Riegle Sen. Riegle could not attend such a meeting with the regulators unless Sen. Riegle was invited by McCain and DeConcini, who represented the state where Keating lived 
" the Senate Banking Committee was apparent to James Grogan ... Sen. Riegle knew as a true politician that this was a potential politically explosive situation because there was so much media at the time about Mr. Keating and Mr. Gray fighting, " James Grogan said 
