Critics have long contended that the Biosphere 2 project in the Arizona desert has more to do with showmanship or cultism than science , despite the Biosphere 2 project in the Arizona desert repeated assertions to the contrary. ; Now , a newspaper says the $ 150 million effort is not the environmental experiment the $ 150 million effort claims to be 
The project began with much fanfare in September when four men and four women , accompanied by 3,000 species of plants and animals , sealed Critics inside a eight-story glass structure for a two-year experiment in biological recycling. ; The allegations of misrepresentation involve a device that removes carbon dioxide from the air and turns the Biosphere 2 project in the Arizona desert into a solid for storage inside the Biosphere. ; Carbon dioxide is exhaled by humans and metabolized by plants. ; The current issue of the Village Voice says the group secretly installed the device , violating the advertised goal of recycling all materials naturally. ; The Voice also said the levels of carbon dioxide in Biosphere 2 were becoming dangerously high , apparently because of the decrease in sunlight and the resulting decline in photosynthetic activity by the plants. ; Kathleen Dyhr , a Biosphere spokeswoman , said in a telephone interview that the group had indeed installed a carbon dioxide remover. ; the contrary. conceded that the Biosphere 2 project in the Arizona desert was not `` natural '' but called the Biosphere 2 project in the Arizona desert a minor aid to help stabilize the atmosphere during the Biosphere 2 project in the Arizona desert initial fluctuations 
The carbon dioxide levels were currently fine , Kathleen Dyhr added , though higher than outside the closed environment. ; Dyhr said the privately financed project had no obligation to disclose all the details of work in progress. ; `` If the experiment were formally reported , written up in a publication , and no mention was made of that fact , then that would be fraud , '' Kathleen Dyhr said 
`` But Kathleen Dyhr do n't know of any research project that would discuss all its methods and techniques '' this early in the process 
`` No experiment would be giving out data to the press . 
; From the start , when planning for the Biosphere got under way in the mid-1980s , it was billed as a futuristic experiment in closed recycling where plants and animals would provide each other with all the essentials for life. ; Most especially , green plants would take human wastes (urine , feces and carbon dioxide )and turn them into oxygen , water and food for human consumption 
No mention was made of chemical aids to the process 
