Virginia Thomas is a soft-spoken , hard-working daughter of the heartland 
A brainy Omaha , Neb. , lawyer who has scaled the sheer cliffs of professional Washington 
A churchgoer who invites homeless people out to lunch 
A good friend. ; Why the fuss over Mrs. Supreme Court Nominee ? 

Her critics see her as more than the supportive spouse who will accompany her husband , Clarence , through Clarence  Senate confirmation hearings , which began Tuesday and are likely to run through next week 
Her critics  see a woman with strong opinions on issues that are bound to come before the court. ; Some women's - rights activists are upset by a woman with strong opinions  lobbying against such issues as comparable-worth legislation 
Some religious rights groups are troubled by a woman with strong opinions  anti-cult activities in light of her former involvement with Lifespring , a motivational group. ; Skin color an issue ; Even the color of her skin is being used to determine the content of Clarence Thomas's character 
The fact that a woman with strong opinions  is white has drawn criticism from some blacks who see the marriage as evidence that Clarence Thomas has rejected his roots. ; In some blacks who see the marriage as evidence that Clarence Thomas has rejected his roots.  respective careers , the Thomases have embraced the view that women and minorities are hindered , rather than helped , by affirmative action and government programs 
True equality is achieved by holding everyone to the same standard , some blacks who see the marriage as evidence that Clarence Thomas has rejected his roots.  believe. ; Ricky Silberman , vice chairwoman of the EEOC and a friend of the Thomases  do not think the same standard  is fair to say holding everyone to the same standard  is anti-women's rights , said Ricky Silberman , vice chairwoman of the EEOC and a friend of the Thomases 
holding everyone to the same standard  said Virginia Thomas opposed legislation on comparable worth because the same standard  would have involved the government in determining wages , which is not good for the economy , not good for workers , not good for women 
; Conservative viewpoint ; Virginia Thomas has represented the conservative viewpoint in Virginia Thomas  jobs as a staffer for a Republican congressman , spokeswoman at the U.S. Chamber of Congress and deputy assistant secretary at the Department of Labor. ; Clarence Thomas advocates a colorblind society , and a staffer for a Republican congressman  marriage may be an example of that philosophy 
But others see a different symbolism. ; a staffer for a Republican congressman  marrying a white woman is a sign of a staffer for a Republican congressman  rejection of the black community , said Russell Adams , chairman of Howard University's department of Afro-American studies 
Great justices have had community roots that served as a basis for understanding the Constitution 
Clarence's lack of a sense of community makes Clarence  nomination troubling 
; Religious leaders wonder ; Some religious leaders are troubled as well 
Dean Kelley , the National Council of Churchescounselor on religious liberty , wrote a critique of Clarence Thomas that was used as grounds for Dean Kelley  organization's opposition to the Supreme Court nominee 
The author did not mention Virginia Thomas in his text , but has said The author  was concerned about Virginia Thomas in his text  involvement in the Cult Awareness Network (CAN ), a Chicago-based organization that says her former involvement  educates the public about destructive cults 
That involvement , The author  said , might affect Virginia Thomas in his text  husband's handling of religious-liberty cases if The author  shares Virginia Thomas in his text  views on the subject. ; During the early 80s , Virginia Thomas enrolled in Lifespring , a self-help course that challenges students to take responsibility for students  lives 
A small percentage of the program's 300,000 graduates have been deeply disturbed by Lifespring's methods , which involve intense emotional self-examination. ; A clean break ; Virginia Thomas was troubled by some of Lifespring's activities and eventually broke with the organization 
Since 1985 , Virginia Thomas  has been a public advocate against cult activities. ; When Virginia Thomas  served as a labor-relations attorney at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce from 1985 to 1989 , Virginia Thomas  represented the interests of the business community at congressional hearings on such issues as comparable worth , affirmative action and federal child-care legislation 
