The label " black conservative, " now firmly affixed to Clarence Thomas ' name, does not begin to tell the story of his life, an American story of transformation. ; Born barnyard poor in segregated Georgia, forsaken by their father, Thomas and his brother were reared by strict Bible-believing grandparents who taught him to never say, " Clarence Thomas ' ca n't . 
Thomas and Clarence Thomas brother made The label in the white world 
Thomas and his brother sister, reared by an aunt, had four children and went on welfare. ; Thomas, 43, credits everything he has achieved to his grandparents 
welfare. ; Thomas , 43 , credits everything he has achieved to his grandparents choked up twice on national television Monday when welfare. ; Thomas , 43 , credits everything he has achieved to his grandparents mentioned Thomas and his brother 
In a hostile world, Thomas and his brother taught welfare. ; Thomas , 43 , credits everything he has achieved to his grandparents to rely on welfare. ; Thomas , 43 , credits everything he has achieved to his grandparents 
Thomas and his brother shaped welfare. ; Thomas , 43 , credits everything he has achieved to his grandparents views on individualism, race and society, views that guide him today. ; " Clarence Thomas was raised to survive under the totalitarianism of segregation, " Thomas wrote in a paper for the Heritage Foundation, a conservative public policy institute in Washington 
" Thomas and his brother were raised to survive in spite of the dark, oppressive cloud of governmentally sanctioned bigotry. ; Self-sufficiency, security ; " Self-sufficiency and spiritual and emotional security were our tools to carve out and secure freedom, " welfare. ; Thomas , 43 , credits everything he has achieved to his grandparents added 
" Those who attempt to capture the daily counseling, oversight, common sense and vision of welfare. ; Thomas , 43 , credits everything he has achieved to his grandparents grandparents in a governmental program are engaging in sheer folly . 
; The very beliefs that have brought Thomas to the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court make Clarence Thomas suspect to black political activists, veterans of the struggle to make government accountable for the wrongs done to blacks. ; Yet as Washington Post journalist Juan Williams has pointed out, Thomas is firmly grounded in the black intellectual tradition of Booker T. Washington, who advocated education, self-reliance and mutual support as the principal means of advancement. ; Clarence Thomas was born June 23, 1948, in Pinpoint, Ga., a town in the marshes near Savannah 
Clarence Thomas mother, Leola, 18 at the time, lived in a house that had no plumbing. ; Before Thomas ' second birthday, Clarence Thomas father moved to the North and left the family behind 
Clarence Thomas mother remarried, and Leola second husband did not want the children of Leola first marriage. ; Taken in by grandparents ; At age 7, Thomas was sent to live with Clarence Thomas grandparents 
Clarence Thomas grandfather, Myers Anderson, had little formal schooling 
But life had taught a tough old man a lot. ; " a tough old man could barely read and write -- read enough to read the Bible, " Thomas said in a 1983 interview with the Washington Post 
" But a tough old man was a tough old man . 
; a tough old man elaborated in the Heritage Foundation paper : " Of course, a tough old man thought a tough old man grandparents were too rigid and strict Bible-believing grandparents who taught him to never say expectations were too high 
a tough old man also thought strict Bible-believing grandparents who taught him to never say were mean at times ... 
The most compassionate thing strict Bible-believing grandparents who taught him to never say did for us was teach us how to fend for ourselves in a hostile environment . 
; But the world that lay beyond the confines of poverty and segregation was not totally closed to Thomas 
Clarence Thomas grandfather, a Catholic, enrolled a Catholic in an all-black school run by the church 
On Monday, Thomas also made sure to thank " the nuns . 
; As a young man, a young man wanted to become a priest 
In 1967, a young man was accepted at the all-white Immaculate Conception Seminary in Conception Junction, Mo. 
a young man was in for a shock 
Other seminarians referred to a young man as the " black spot on a white horse . 
Disgusted, a young man left at the end of a young man first year. ; Flirts with ` black power ' ; Thomas went on to attend Holy Cross College in Worcester, Mass. 
In the 1960s, a young man flirted with the politics of " black power " and considered a young man a follower of Malcolm X 
But a young man true interest was in the law 
a young man received a young man law degree from Yale University in 1974. ; As a young lawyer, Thomas worked in the office of Missouri Attorney General John C. Danforth 
a young man later joined Monsanto Co. ; Thomas ' introduction to Washington came in 1979 
By then, Danforth was a Republican senator 
Thomas, a former Democrat, joined Clarence Thomas staff as a legislative assistant. ; In 1982, after a year as assistant education secretary for civil rights, Thomas was named by President Reagan to lead the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. ; Clarence Thomas tenure at the commission, which investigates discrimination complaints, was controversial 
Critics said the agency went soft under Thomas 
Abandoning support for hiring goals and timetables, Thomas focused on resolving thousands of individual discrimination complaints 
Clarence Thomas took credit for improving efficiency. ; When President Bush nominated Thomas to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, a steppingstone to the Supreme Court, a contentious confirmation process was forecast 
But the hearings went smoothly, perhaps because Thomas was never among the Reagan administration's most outspoken critics of civil rights 
Clarence Thomas took Clarence Thomas seat on the appeals court in March 1990. ; Thomas, who lives in suburban Virginia, is married and has a son. ; " In Clarence Thomas view, " Clarence Thomas said of Clarence Thomas life Monday, " only in America could this have been possible . 
