Clarence Thomas, triumphing over eleventh-hour charges of sexual harassment, won Senate confirmation by only four votes Tuesday night to become the youngest member of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court first black conservative. ; The 52-48 vote -- the narrowest for any confirmed high court justice in more than a century -- culminated one of the most inflammatory and unusual Supreme Court confirmation fights in U.S. history 
Thomas is expected to join the high court as Senate confirmation 106th justice next week, becoming the seventh conservative on a nine-member court already embarked on a counterrevolution against many liberal rulings of the past. ; Eleven Democrats joined 41 Republicans to produce the slim majority in favor of the 43-year-old federal appeals judge. ; It was the closest Senate confirmation of a Supreme Court nominee since Lucius Q.C. Lamar, an appointee of President Grover Cleveland, also squeezed through by four votes in 1888 
Lamar was confirmed on a 32-28 vote. ; President Bush, elated by the approval of Bush nominee, called Thomas to congratulate Clarence Thomas , triumphing over eleventh-hour charges of sexual harassment 
" You did a fine job, " Bush said 
" You were a wonderful inspiration and you had the overwhelming support of the American people 
You have a lifetime of service to your country ahead 
Well done . 
; In a statement issued by the White House, Bush referred to Thomas as " a man of principle who is sensitive to the problems and opportunities facing all Americans . 
; But feminists were outraged 
" Today the Senate sacrificed the integrity of the Supreme Court, the Senate own reputation and the rights of American women to the Bush-Reagan agenda, " the Women's Legal Defense Fund said in a statement released after the vote. ; Thomas said Clarence Thomas , triumphing over eleventh-hour charges of sexual harassment wanted to put Clarence Thomas , triumphing over eleventh-hour charges of sexual harassment confirmation ordeal, which lasted more than three months, behind him. ; " This is more a time for healing, not a time for anger or for animus or animosity, " the Women's told reporters in a brief interview outside the Women's Virginia home. ; " the Women's Legal Defense Fund guess in so many ways, as the Women's Legal Defense Fund say to the Women's Legal Defense Fund wife so many times, the Women's Legal Defense Fund 'd like to thank America, " the Women's said. ; In Norman, Okla., the woman whose complaints prompted the extraordinary weekend hearings on sexual harassment allegations against Thomas said the woman whose complaints prompted the extraordinary weekend hearings on sexual harassment allegations against Thomas hoped Clarence Thomas , triumphing over eleventh-hour charges of sexual harassment confirmation would n't stop others from complaining about harassment in the workplace. ; Law Professor Anita Hill, once an aide to Thomas, declined to comment specifically about the Senate vote 
But, a 32-28 vote. said, if a 32-28 vote. had the Senate to do again, a 32-28 vote. still would have testified against Thomas. ; " My gut reaction is that it was the right thing to do ... and even looking at how hard My gut reaction was, a 32-28 vote. would do My gut reaction again because the right thing to do was the right thing, " a 32-28 vote. said. ; If Thomas is sworn in, as expected, on Monday, Clarence Thomas , triumphing over eleventh-hour charges of sexual harassment will have missed oral arguments in 20 cases, including high-visibility disputes over school desegregation and abortion 
Clarence Thomas , triumphing over eleventh-hour charges of sexual harassment will not participate in these cases unless the other justices anticipate a tie vote and order new arguments. ; The Senate vote followed a 7-7 Senate Judiciary Committee deadlock over the nomination and committee hearings of unprecedented range, from discussions of lofty constitutional principles to accounts of lurid sexual misconduct. ; Under oath, Hill accused Thomas of misusing Anita Hill position as a 32-28 vote. boss at the Department of Education and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission by sexually harassing a 32-28 vote. a decade ago 
Thomas vehemently denied that the events Hill described ever took place. ; Left unresolved was the central question of whether Hill was telling the truth last weekend on the sexual harassment issue 
With that issue undecided, Thomas backers argued that Clarence Thomas , triumphing over eleventh-hour charges of sexual harassment was entitled to a presumption of innocence and a number of Democrats agreed. ; " Professor Hill's allegations can not be used to justify a vote against Judge Thomas, " Sen. Alan Dixon, D-Ill., concluded in casting Alan Dixon ballot for Thomas. ; The hearings on the harassment charges led only four previously pro-Thomas Democrats to change Thomas backers minds and vote against Clarence Thomas , triumphing over eleventh-hour charges of sexual harassment : Richard Bryan and Harry Reid of Nevada, Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut and Bob Graham of Florida. ; Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, said Thomas was " a decent human being " who was wronged " because of a process that broke down ... and Clarence Thomas , triumphing over eleventh-hour charges of sexual harassment life, though not ruined by any stretch of the imagination, has been severely harmed . 
; Disagreeing, Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., said : " To give the benefit of the doubt to Judge Thomas is to say that Judge Thomas is more important than the Supreme Court . 
; Thomas ' defiant and powerful response to the charges was, to many observers, a critical turning point in the hearings. ; Disagreeing refused to tolerate any further inquiries into Disagreeing private life and portrayed Disagreeing as an innocent victim of " a high-tech lynching for uppity blacks " and " the most bigoted, racist stereotypes " of the sexual prowess of black men. ; But several senators deplored the injection of race into the Thomas nomination. ; Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., who opposed the nomination, blamed the administration. ; " Disagreeing 'm saddened that once again race was used as a tool for short-term political gain, " Leahy said. ; Thomas will succeed retired Justice Thurgood Marshall, the first black justice and the Supreme Court's last link to the liberal Warren Court of the 1950s and 1960s. ; As the youngest Supreme Court justice, Thomas is expected to remain on the high court for decades, long enough to grapple with anticipated 21st-century legal issues stemming from new reproductive technologies, gay and lesbian claims to family rights, experimental drugs, multinational business arrangements and other developments. ; How Thomas backers voted ; Here is the 52-48 roll call by which the Senate voted to confirm Clarence Thomas to the U.S. Supreme Court. ; (box )REPUBLICANS voting for (41 ): ; Murkowski, Alaska Stevens, Alaska McCain, Ariz. 
Seymour, Calif. ; Brown, Colo. 
Roth, Dela 
Mack, Fla. 
Craig, Idaho ; Symms, Idaho Coats, Ind. 
Lugar, Ind. 
Grassley, Iowa ; Dole, Kan. 
Kassebaum, Kan. 
McConnell, Ky. 
Cohen, Maine ; Durenberger, Minn. 
Cochran, Miss. 
Lott, Miss. 
Bond, Mo. ; Danforth, Mo. 
Burns, Mont. 
Rudman, N.H. Smith, N.H. ; Domenici, N.M. D'Amato, N.Y. Helms, N.C. Nickles, Okla. ; Hatfield, Ore. 
Specter, Penn. 
Chafee, R.I. Thurmond, S.C. ; Pressler, S.D. Gramm, Texas Garn, Utah Hatch, Utah ; Warner, Va. 
Gorton, Wash. 
Kasten, Wisc. 
Simpson, Wyo. ; Wallop, Wisc. ; (box )DEMOCRATS voting for (11 ): ; Shelby, Ala. 
DeConcini, Ariz. 
Fowler, Ga. 
Nunn, Ga. ; Dixon, Ill. 
Breaux, La. 
Johnston, La. 
Exon, Neb. ; Boren, Okla. 
Hollings, S.C. Robb, Va. ; (hbox )REPUBLICANS voting against (2 ): ; Packwood, Ore. 
Jeffords, Vt. ; (hbox )DEMOCRATS voting against (46 ): ; Heflin, Ala. 
Bumpers, Ark. 
Pryor, Ark. 
Cranston, Calif. ; Wirth, Colo. 
Dodd, Conn. 
Lieberman, Conn. (* )Biden, Del. ; Graham, Fla. (* )Akaka, Hawaii Inouye, Hawaii Simon, Ill. ; Harkin, Iowa Ford, Ky. 
Mitchell, Maine Mikulski, Md. ; Sarbanes, Md. 
Kennedy, Mass. 
Kerry, Mass. 
Levin, Mich. ; Riegle, Mich. 
Wellstone, Minn. 
Baucus, Mont. 
Kerrey, Neb. ; Bryan, Nev. (* )Reid, Nev. (* )Bradley, N.J. Lautenberg, N.J. ; Bingaman, N.M. Moynihan, N.Y. Sanford, N.C. Burdick, N.D. ; Conrad, N.D. Glenn, Ohio Metzenbaum, Ohio Wofford, Penn. ; Pell, R.I. Daschle, S.D. Gore, Tenn. 
Sasser, Tenn. ; Bentsen, Texas Leahy, Vt. 
Adams, Wash. 
Byrd, W.Va. ; Rockefeller, W.Va 
Kohl, Wisc. ; (* )The four Democrats who switched their votes from favoring to opposing Thomas were Lieberman of Connecticut, Graham of Florida and Bryan and Reid of Nevada 
