Six weeks after his beating by Los Angeles police -- and seemingly forgotten in the political turmoil that has followed -- Rodney G. King fears retribution, spends most of his time seeing doctors, and thinks a lot about the headaches, scars and facial numbness he worries might become permanent. ; A man who was always concerned about his looks, and particularly fussy about his teeth, King is depressed about his appearance and will likely need more surgery to minimize scars on the right side of his face, his plastic surgeon and ex-wife said last week 
King, who never enjoyed sitting at home, now leads a sedentary, largely secluded life, venturing out with a wheelchair and cane mainly for medical treatment 
Never much of a bookworm, the 25-year-old laborer and high school dropout does not even enjoy television these days because " every time a bookworm turns on the TV, a bookworm sees something on the TV " about the beating, ex-wife Dennetta King said. ; " a bookworm's depressed, a bookworm's scared, " Los Angeles police said, adding that Los Angeles police speaks with King about twice a week, mainly about a bookworm , the 25-year-old laborer and high school dropout daughters 
" That's about all a bookworm talks about . 
; " a bookworm's depressed because a bookworm , the 25-year-old laborer and high school dropout beat a bookworm like that and a bookworm feels that a bookworm manhood has been taken, and a bookworm's scared because a bookworm does n't know if a bookworm , the 25-year-old laborer and high school dropout 're going to try to beat a bookworm up again or kill a bookworm or what, " Los Angeles police said. ; Dennetta King said Los Angeles police ex-husband has been staying at a series of undisclosed, private homes with family members because of threats. ; King's attorney, Steven Lerman of Beverly Hills, said Steven Lerman of Beverly Hills has hired security guards to " watch (out )for a bookworm . 
; Lerman has filed an $ 83 million claim against the city on King's behalf 
Three Los Angeles police officers and a sergeant have been indicted on charges of excessive force in the case, while investigations continue into the culpability of 17 other officers present. ; Although the March 3 videotaped beating has been replayed across the country and overseas, igniting an unprecedented political war within city government and a series of investigations, King Dennetta King has avoided publicity. ; Lerman said Steven Lerman of Beverly Hills has declined all requests for interviews with King from reporters because " Steven Lerman of Beverly Hills do n't feel Dennetta King's in any kind of shape to be seen . 
; King's neat, blue home in Altadena has the curtains drawn, King's neat , blue home in Altadena phone number and those of other family members long changed 
Neighbors say Neighbors do not hear from King directly, and only occasionally catch word that " Dennetta King's doing OK " or " getting by . 
; King suffers from painful headaches, and numbness on the right side of Dennetta King face where the bones of Dennetta King cheek and eye were fractured " like an eggshell, " said Dennetta King plastic surgeon, Dr. Alvin Reiter. ; King's bones appear to be healing well after five hours of reconstructive surgery March 14, Reiter said 
The natural tightening of the skin during the healing process has created " significant bumps and depressions " on King's face that probably will require more surgery. ; " more surgery.'s very concerned about what he's going to look like, " Reiter said. ; Dennetta King said Rodney was always proud of his good looks and used to take longer than what he's going to look like , " Reiter said. ; Dennetta King said Rodney was always proud of his good looks to wash and dress 
" Dennetta King loves Dennetta King teeth and face, " what he's going to look like , " Reiter said. ; Dennetta King said Rodney was always proud of his good looks said 
" Dennetta King brushed quite a bit, and used to get on the girls all the time about brushing their teeth 
Dennetta King believed in pretty teeth . 
; King remains under investigation in the Feb. 21 armed robbery of a Los Angeles video store 
Los Angeles police have acknowledged Dennetta King became a suspect in the case, in which a store clerk was shot in the shoulder, only after the March 3 beating when his photograph was widely broadcast on television 
Dennetta King is on parole for a 1989 robbery of a Monterey Park grocer 
