One by one the customers filtered out of the Orion Telescope Center , eclipsing personal dignity in the customers  zeal to view the sun through geeky , fluorescent-green paper eyeshades. ; It works : I see the sun , exclaimed customer Jim Maurer as he peered at the Cupertino sky through his five-buck Startrap Eclipse Viewers 
But I ca not see anything else ... 
You know , I do not think it is safe to drive in these 
Sure , he will be able to see Thursday's solar eclipse 
But , oh , if only he and the hundreds of other customers could see themselves in the mirror , looking like an audience for a 3-D horror flick. ; the mirror  appears from the way people in the Golden State have been acting these days that they have been in the sun too long 
Actually , they ca not wait to get into the shadow 
Millions of Californians will pause Thursday morning to join in an international ritual : watching the longest-lasting solar eclipse until 2132. ; What other natural phenomenon can you be involved in and not get killed ? 
said Bert Beecher , spokesman for the Minolta Planetarium at De Anza College 
the Minolta Planetarium  is a lot safer than being in a volcano 
; Eyeshades a hot item ; Bay Area people Tuesday were desperately seeking eyeshades 
a hot item  took 24 hours for Orion Telescope in Cupertino to sell a hot item  stock of 900 Eclipse Viewers , which are made with Mylar plastic lenses and supposedly safe for eclipse viewing 
Welding supply stores were inundated with calls for welder's glasses made with the same plastic. ; Local planetariums and observatories were deluged with requests from people wanting to attend solar viewing sessions , even though the Bay Area will be privy only to a partial eclipse 63 percent coverage of the sun by the moon from 10:10 a.m. to 12:34 p.m. ; Some Bay Area umbraphiles lovers of the shadow were leaving few details to chance. ; Flights heavily booked ; Flights from here to Mexico and Hawaii where the eclipse can be seen in total were heavily booked by sunstruck people spending thousands of dollars to stand in 6 minutes , 53 seconds of darkness. ; Scott Wiener , a computer company executive from Saratoga , is flying with two buddies to Baja , where thousands will toast the corona with Coronas. ; Eyeshades a hot item ; Bay Area people Tuesday  figure 900 Eclipse Viewers  will get there in time to see the eclipse from a cab , said Wiener , who stood in line at the telescope store Tuesday for the Eclipse Viewers 
Eyeshades a hot item ; Bay Area people Tuesday  will put on the glasses and stick Eyeshades a hot item ; Bay Area people Tuesday  heads out the window. ; Eyeshades a hot item ; Bay Area people Tuesday  figure the window.  is worth the window.  
Eyeshades a hot item ; Bay Area people Tuesday  do not know if Eyeshades a hot item ; Bay Area people Tuesday  will be around for the next one in 150 years 
; WHERE TO WATCH ; Here are places to view Thursday's solar eclipse : ; (box )The San Jose Astronomical Association will set up special telescopes at Branham Lane Park , near the intersection of Branham and Camden Avenue , from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. For information , call the association's recorded message at -LRB-408-RRB- 997-3347 
; (box )In Berkeley , the Lawrence Hall of Science will offer safe viewing 
For information , call -LRB-415-RRB- 642-5133 
; (box )At Foothill College , the Foothill Observatory will be open for public viewing 
For information call (415 )949-7334. ; (box )In Cupertino , viewing will be offered from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Orion Telescope Center store at 10555 S. De Anza Blvd. 
Call (408 )255-8770 for information. ; (box )California State University , Hayward is hosting a Safe Solar Eclipse viewing from 10 a.m. to noon in front of the Student Union 
The Society of Physics Students will set up several 6-inch telescopes , and a video camera will record the eclipse for viewing on television 
For information , call Kenton White or Charlie Harper at the physics department , -LRB-415-RRB- 881-3401 
; (box )In Santa Cruz , a telescope will be set up in front of the Orion Telescope Center at 2450 17th Ave. , and at the Seabright Brewery , 519 Seabright Ave. For information , call -LRB-408-RRB- 464-0465 
