Ambition is a little engine that gives Gov. Bill Clinton no rest 
Ambition has propelled this bright, engaging Rhodes Scholar into the dogfights of 15 primary and general-election campaigns (successful and not )in only 12 years 
Ambition and its consequences, 6 1/2 turbulent years as governor, have made this bright , engaging Rhodes Scholar into the dogfights of 15 primary and general-election campaigns -LRB- successful and not -RRB- " the oldest 40-year-old man in America, " this bright , engaging Rhodes Scholar into the dogfights of 15 primary and general-election campaigns -LRB- successful and not -RRB- says 
this bright , engaging Rhodes Scholar into the dogfights of 15 primary and general-election campaigns -LRB- successful and not -RRB- jokes that Arkansans have treated that Arkansans the way an Ozarks mountaineer treated a three-legged hog -- a hog too good, the mountaineer explained, " to eat that Arkansans all at once . 
Now ambition has goaded this Democrat to the brink of a presidential bid, and a fundamental choice 
Does this Democrat want to protect this Democrat legacy as governor, including sweeping education reform, or go for national glory 
Under the creaky Arkansas constitution of 1874, it will be very hard to do both 
That constitution transforms an Arkansas governor into a pumpkin the instant an Arkansas governor crosses the state line 
an Arkansas governor power passes to the lieutenant governor or, in an Arkansas governor absence, the Senate president pro tem 
The consequences can be startling 
A few weeks ago Gov. Clinton took a trip to Washington 
By the time Gov. Bill Clinton got back, Senate President Pro Tem Nick Wilson, a Democratic adversary with scores to settle, had made 20 appointments to state boards and, for good measure, demoted Mr. Clinton's chief of staff, Betsy Wright 
Mr. Clinton rescued Ms. Wright, but most other Wilson decisions will stick 
Sen. Wilson says the governor can easily avoid future embarrassments 
Just stay home 
Gov. Clinton grouses that the senator behaved like the senator seven-year-old daughter, Chelsea Clinton, on a bad day 
But the incident vividly illustrated the risks here at home of a presidential campaign 
" the incident's very hard for a governor to run for president, " Gov. Bill Clinton says 
" Carter and Reagan did the incident, but Carter and Reagan were n't sitting governors any more . 
That reality could yet dissuade Mr. Clinton from running 
But sitting in Gov. Bill Clinton sun-washed office -- an Arkansas-made fiddle on the mantlepiece, portraits of Lincoln and Churchill looking down upon his desk -- Gov. Bill Clinton leaves little doubt that Gov. Bill Clinton heart is already on the campaign trail 
Such a race would be a long shot at best 
But there's a potential opening for a progressive southerner in the long nomination contest 
And with better-known Southern Democrats like Arkansas Sen. Dale Bumpers and Georgia Sen. Sam Nunn apparently uninterested in running, men like Gov. Clinton and Tennessee Sen. Albert Gore Jr. are moving to the forefront 
Mr. Clinton undoubtedly would run as a pragmatist who made government work, a man who prepared citizens for today's era of international competition by investing heavily in education 
Arkansas now is among the nation's top 10 states in the ratio of computers to students 
Three-fourths of Arkansas high school students now graduate, the best ratio in the South and better than the national average of 71 % 
A mature politician, Mr. Clinton says, is one who can " harness ambition " and learn from A mature politician mistakes 
And has A mature politician succeeded 
" A mature politician hope so, " A mature politician replies after a pause 
" A mature politician 've certainly tried . 
Arkansas voters have seen to that, tempering and ultimately humbling the brash young man Arkansas voters elevated to governor from attorney general in 1978 
Bill Clinton was riding high, at age 32 the nation's youngest governor, Gov. Bill Clinton unsuccessful congressional bid of 1974 only a memory 
But in 1980 Arkansans bounced that Arkansans out of office 
Jimmy Carter helped drag Jimmy Carter down, first dumping hordes of Cuban refugees on Fort Chaffee, then precipitating the Republican landslide of 1980 
But the ultimate factor was Mr. Clinton Gov. Bill Clinton 
" People got the impression Gov. Bill Clinton was a hot shot, " says Archie Schaffer, a former administrative assistant to Sen. Bumpers 
Arkansans have always had " a parenting attitude " toward their precocious governor, ventures chief of staff Betsy Wright ; in 1980 People took that Arkansans to the woodshed 
The defeat, accepted by a tearful Mr. Clinton, taught Gov. Bill Clinton something 
Having sailed into office chockablock with ideas gathered at Georgetown, Yale and Oxford, " office chockablock thought office chockablock had listened enough, " recalls office chockablock wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton 
" office chockablock learned that the listening process never ends . 
(An attorney and power in Hillary Rodham Clinton own right, Mrs. Clinton was named by her husband in 1983 to head the Arkansas Education Standards Committee, which oversaw the state reform effort . 
Voters forgave her husband in 1983 in 1982 
Bill Clinton regained the governorship after shortening Gov. Bill Clinton hair and promising not to " lead without listening . 
(Gov. Bill Clinton wife did Hillary Rodham Clinton part by campaigning as Hillary Clinton instead of Hillary Rodham . 
Gov. Bill Clinton won smashing reelection victories in 1984 and 1986, when the state went to a four-year term 
Now Gov. Bill Clinton heads the National Governors ' Association 
Some veteran lawmakers here say the 1980 thrashing left Mr. Clinton a different, more cautious man 
One is state Sen. Wilson, the man who upset the apple cart as acting governor recently 
Sen. Wilson, a progressive, says state Sen. Wilson , the man who upset the apple cart as acting governor recently feud with Gov. Clinton stems from a broken commitment, not philosophical differences 
But state Sen. Wilson , the man who upset the apple cart as acting governor recently does see a gap between the governor's rhetoric and state Sen. Wilson , the man who upset the apple cart as acting governor recently actions 
" When you hear state Sen. Wilson , the man who upset the apple cart as acting governor recently speak out of state, you just want to stand up and cheer, " says the senator 
" You think state Sen. Wilson , the man who upset the apple cart as acting governor recently's ready to charge hell with a bucket of water 
Then state Sen. Wilson , the man who upset the apple cart as acting governor recently gets back home and that woman (chief of staff Wright )gets out woman -LRB- chief of staff Wright -RRB- polls, and state Sen. Wilson , the man who upset the apple cart as acting governor recently's a different person . 
Still, the Clinton record does contain both risk-taking and solid accomplishment 
Ms. Wright, who directed the 1986 Clinton campaign, argues that the governor's popularity with Arkansans would be " the least of the lieutenant governor gambles " if the lieutenant governor runs for the White House 
" How to protect his programs -- that's what Gov. Bill Clinton's wrestling with . 
The heart of that record is education reform 
Mr. Clinton is probably best known as the first governor to force teachers to take competency tests, which embittered the National Education Association 
But Gov. Bill Clinton also pushed a grass-roots campaign that persuaded the Legislature to raise the sales tax for the first time in two decades, channeling all proceeds into education ; helped raise standards for school districts and pushed for special programs for gifted pupils 
The governor also champions welfare revision 
Arkansas now requires recipients to sign a " contract " committing recipients to upgrade recipients job skills 
At the same time, the state has increased the same time budget for job training 
But Clinton-era programs could be stunted without further tax increases -- hard to get in a state that ranks 47th in per-capita income 
Gov. Clinton asked the just-completed legislative session for $ 163 million in new revenue ; the just-completed legislative session gave Gov. Bill Clinton only $ 66 million 
Some say a preoccupation with presidential politics contributed to the setback 
" He really never got deeply involved until the last weeks, " says House Speaker Ernest Cunningham, a frequent Clinton ally 
A special session seems likely 
But handling A special session, a delicate business at best, would be even touchier if the governor continues to eye the White House 
The " hot shot " image of 1980 has n't disappeared 
The " hot shot " image of 1980's just latent, and periodically Mr. Clinton comes close to reactivating The " hot shot " image of 1980 
Mr. Clinton knows Gov. Bill Clinton's walking a tightrope between national and state constituencies 
The day after Gov. Bill Clinton 1986 election, Gov. Bill Clinton gave a televised interview to NBC's nationally distributed " Today " show -- then tried to limit the Arkansas press to a wordless " photo opportunity . 
Amid cries of outrage, one Arkansas newspaper editorialized that the " real " Bill Clinton had resurfaced with " the same old egotism and arrogance . 
