Kinder-Care Learning Centers Inc. brought back Tull Gearreald as president and chief executive officer after the man who succeeded Tull Gearreald in June resigned . 
The Montgomery , Ala.-based company gave no reason for the departure of J. Phillip Samper . 
Mr. Samper , former vice chairman of Eastman Kodak Co. , could n't be reached for comment . 
The executive change comes as Kinder-Care , the nation 's largest day-care center operator , struggles to restructure Kinder-Care 's debt after missing interest payments to bank creditors and noteholders . 
Mr. Gearreald became involved with Kinder-Care in 1988 when Tull Gearreald merchant banking fund and merger advisory firm , Lodestar Group , acquired a 4.9 % stake in Kinder-Care 's parent company , now called Enstar Group Inc. . 
Eventually , Lodestar ended up with 63 % of Kinder-Care following a restructuring . 
Mr. Gearreald became interim chief executive officer of Kinder-Care last February , while Tull Gearreald Lodestar partner , Ken Miller , became chairman . 
They had a falling-out four months later when Mr. Miller decided Mr. Gearreald should be replaced as chief executive , and Mr. Gearreald left Lodestar . 
Mr. Miller said the board hired Mr. Samper in June because Ken Miller was a professional manager . 
`` At the time , the time looked like things were on an even keel . 
The balance sheet problems were challenging but not as daunting as they subsequently appeared . '' 
Mr. Samper , according to Napoleon H. Overton , an analyst at Morgan Keegan & Co. , planned to sell and lease back some of Kinder-Care 's day-care centers to generate about $ 100 million and reduce the company 's debt . 
But bank credit for lease-back deals soon dried up , and the company had to abandon the effort late last year . 
Mr. Miller said Kinder-Care 's board decided to rehire Mr. Gearreald because Tull Gearreald knows the company 's situation , is `` financially sophisticated '' and is popular with employees . 
Mr. Gerreauld , 45 years old , said Gerreauld returned because , `` Mr. Gerreauld , 45 years old have a strong obligation to the shareholders as well as the creditors and employees . '' 
Most recently , Mr. Gerreauld has been head of investment banking for UBS Securities Inc. in New York . 
Mr. Gerreauld , 45 years old remains an investor in Lodestar , which has more than half of its fund invested in Kinder-Care . 
Kinder-Care 's stock closed at 71.875 cents , up 15.625 cents , in national over-the-counter trading yesterday . 
Mr. Gerreauld said a restructuring study by Coopers & Lybrand is under way , and a plan should be ready for creditors within 60 days . 
Mr. Gerreauld , 45 years old said the company will conserve cash by opening fewer centers , but will keep investing in Kinder-Care 's parent company 1,258 existing centers . 
