The conventional wisdom is that small companies lack the resources to offer child-care benefits , no matter how much employees crave them . 
But a growing number of small businesses are trying anyway . 
small companies 're finding that small companies small size does create big problems . 
Yet some are making child care work . 
Take Stephen Zink , owner of a Louisville , Ky. , office furniture and supply distributor . 
Stephen Zink personally invested $ 50,000 , plus $ 20,000 in company funds , to convert a house into an on-site day-care center for employees ' children . 
Then , Stephen Zink faced a problem typical of small employers : With just 100 employees , Stephen Zink could n't attract enough children to fill Stephen Zink center . 
Consequently , a problem typical of small employers did n't break even as expected . 
Since a problem typical of small employers opened two years ago , the center has run up a $ 30,000 deficit -- financed out of Mr. Zink 's pocket and a loan Stephen Zink guaranteed . 
Stephen Zink 's now trying a new approach : Stephen Zink aims to market the center to nonemployees ' kids as well . 
But Stephen Zink says Stephen Zink 's committed to keeping the center open because an on-site day-care center for employees ' children has helped enhance his company 's community image . 
Mr. Zink 's center is one of 29 small-company programs described in a new report by the New York-based Child Care Action Campaign , a nonprofit child-care advocacy group . 
The report tells how companies with fewer than 250 employees have experimented in recent years , offering day-care centers , subsidies to employees , referral services , flexible benefit programs and dependent-care assistance plans . 
The small-company owners offering benefits are often parents with child-care needs of The small-company owners offering benefits own , says Barbara Reisman , the advocacy group 's executive director . 
Many employ a high percentage of women , who , she says , still shoulder the child-care burden in most families . 
And , she adds , some started their programs to help resolve their troubles in recruiting and retaining women employees . 
Many small companies mentioned in the report say Many small companies mentioned in the report programs have turned out to be good for business . 
Employee morale is up since the programs were started , Many small companies mentioned in the report say . 
Hiring is easier , maternity leaves have shortened , and turnover is off as much as 50 % . 
Pro Tem Professional Temporary Service Inc. , a clerical agency in Portland , Ore. , says its program has more than paid for itself . 
The company subsidizes its employees ' child-care expenses by paying an extra 50 cents an hour . 
Last year , Last year made a profit -- after expenses , including the subsidy -- of nearly $ 50,000 on work done by the 216 parents in the program . 
Still , such small businesses face a tougher time than big companies in offering child-care benefits . 
Administrative hassles can sap a small company 's tiny staff . 
Executives at G.T. Water Products Inc. , a maker of plumbing supplies in Moorpark , Calif. , are still haggling with local officials over zoning and building-code regulations after opening a school four years ago . 
Debra Tash , a vice president , says Debra Tash spent more than a month persuading the city council to give the company special permission to run the school in an industrial zone . 
Debra Tash is still responding to demands by fire-code officials that the company upgrade the facility . 
So far , his company 's has spent $ 5,000 for new doors , ceiling tiles and dampers . 
`` There are times you can pull your hair out and think this is more trouble than it 's worth , '' Debra Tash says . 
But she and her husband , George Tash , the company 's president , have two children in the school , and they say they 're committed to keeping his company 's open . 
`` There 's something cheerier in an environment when you hear a bunch of kids laughing , '' Mr. Tash says . 
Small companies face multiple challenges . 
small companies must pay closer attention than big concerns to the needs of individual employees . 
A large employer , for instance , can start a day-care center by making broad assumptions of needs based on employee demographics , says Jill Foley , an analyst at the Employee Benefit Research Institute in Washington , D.C. . 
But a small company must survey employees . 
If most of fewer than 250 employees already have satisfactory arrangements , A large employer says , the wrong time to open a center 's probably the wrong time to open a center . 
Small companies with limited resources must take precautions to limit Small companies with limited resources liability for the safety of children in care programs , says Alan Cleveland , a partner at Sheehan , Phinney , Bass & Green , a Manchester , N.H. , law firm that offers employees a dependent-care assistance plan , which enables employees to use pretax earnings for some of fewer than 250 employees child-care expenses . 
For on-site day care , where the risk is great , Alan Cleveland advises companies to minimize exposure by avoiding ownership . 
What 's more , limited budgets typically put a crimp in programs run by small companies . 
Those operating day-care centers often skimp on staff , for instance . 
William Sturgis , a child-care consultant in Northbrook , Ill. , says staffing is typically so thin that when a day-care teacher gets sick , a small company must scramble to find somebody to fill in . 
Limited budgets -- and space -- also mean small companies ca n't satisfy all their employees ' needs . 
Edgewood Manor Inc. , a nursing home operator in Portsmouth , N.H. , offers day care for children in the nursing home . 
But employees with sick children must make other arrangements because the company did n't allow space for isolating sick kids . 
Edgewoood employees on night shifts miss out on the program , too , because there are n't enough of Edgewoood employees on night shifts to make its program worthwhile for the company to offer round-the-clock care . 
One possible solution : offering spaces to children of night workers at the local post office . 
Small employers often ca n't afford consultants to guide consultants on the pitfalls of launching new benefits . 
Watering Inc. , a Bennington , Vt. , publisher of a catalog magazine for antique-car buffs , got gripes from nonparents after Watering Inc. offered subsidies of up to $ 3,000 a year for child care . 
But Charles Waters , the company 's financial vice president , says the company explained that not everybody takes advantage of any benefit . 
Some companies have found that employees abuse child-care benefits . 
Prime Publishers Inc. , in Southbury , Conn. , which publishes a local weekly newspaper , discovered parents were calling in sick , leaving the 216 parents in the program children in day care at the company 's expense and going shopping . 
The company solved the problem by dropping his company 's subsidy when an employee is ill . 
Not all companies cited in the Child Care Action Campaign 's report are sticking with the 216 parents in the program programs . 
Judi Wineland , owner of Overseas Adventure Travel Inc. in Cambridge , Mass. , started Judi Wineland child-care program five years ago when Judi Wineland needed care for Judi Wineland growing family . 
Judi Wineland hired a care giver to watch Judi Wineland children , plus those of employees and others , in an apartment in the Victorian house where Judi Wineland company has his company 's offices . 
But each time a care giver quit , Ms. Wineland and her husband , who runs an affiliated agency , had to fill in . 
`` each time a care giver quit , Ms. Wineland and her husband , who runs an affiliated agency might last a couple of weeks but each time a care giver quit , Ms. Wineland and her husband , who runs an affiliated agency seemed like years , '' says Ms. Wineland . 
The latest turnover in care givers so distracted Judi Wineland this year that Judi Wineland lost business opportunities . 
As a result , Judi Wineland has decided to close the program -- a decision that means Judi Wineland can no longer pause , while working , to hear Judi Wineland two-year-old laughing in the office 's backyard . 
`` That 's all gone , '' Judi Wineland says sadly . 
`` Judi Wineland hate a result . '' 
