Now , the U.S. faces the danger of fantasy becoming reality , and the next 48 hours pose the most vulnerable period 
With the U.S. just beginning to convey a massive military force to the Persian Gulf region , Iraqi ruler Saddam Hussein has a window of opportunity of about that much time to freely deploy his formidable army , possibly unleash his vast chemical-weapons stockpile and test whether the West's ships really intend to blockade his oil shipments 
`` If Saddam is going to move militarily , Iraqi ruler Saddam Hussein's going to do the U.S. very soon , '' says William Cohen of Maine , the ranking Republican on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence 
`` Iraqi ruler Saddam Hussein wo n't want to wait until his vast chemical-weapons have everybody in place there . 
One flashpoint may come as soon as today , when an Iraqi-owned supertanker attempts to take on Iraqi oil from the Saudi oil terminal at Yanbu in the Red Sea 
According to industry and other sources , the Iraqis may be using the ship to force a confrontation with a powerful U.S. naval force situated near the port 
The U.S. has n't formally declared a blockade , but U.S. forces are unlikely to simply let the Iraqi ship pass 
Both Iraq and the U.S. yesterday appeared to move closer to confrontation in their public statements 
Iraq declared that Iraq had formally annexed Kuwait , dropping all pretense that Iraq intended to pull out of the nation it invaded last Thursday 
Referring to the buildup of Western forces in the region , Iraq said , `` We will fight William Cohen of Maine , the ranking Republican on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence criminal force ... 
The blood of our martyrs will burn William Cohen of Maine , the ranking Republican on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence . 
President Bush , saying that `` a line has been drawn in the sand , '' vowed in a televised address that Mr. Bush 's would n't tolerate the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait 
The president stressed that U.S. troops are intended to defend the Saudi kingdom , not to drive Iraq out of Kuwait 
The president said The president hopes to free Kuwait through economic pressure on Saddam Hussein , which continued to mount as the world's oil-consuming nations -- and , just as importantly , many of the world 's leading oil producers -- joined together in a campaign to cut off Iraqi oil without causing global economic dislocation 
The Arab world continued trying to sort out The Arab world response to the action in the Middle East 
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak called for an emergency meeting in Cairo today at which Arab leaders will agonize over whether to support putting a multinational army in the path of Saddam Hussein 
King Hussein of Jordan , who had been supportive of Iraq , said King Hussein of Jordan , who had been supportive of Iraq would refuse to recognize the official annexation that Saddam Hussein announced yesterday in Bagdhad 
The most pressing question on the minds of many now is : Just how tough is Iraq 
The most pressing question on the minds of many now army , battle-trained and wielding the most modern Soviet-made tanks and air-defense weapons , has already impressed U.S. experts with the skill and efficiency of a multinational army 2 a.m. blitzkrieg attack on Kuwait last Thursday 
Its airpower is no match for the U.S. 
But on the ground , where any confrontation would be likely to matter most in the opening scenes , the Iraqi army is far from the rag-tag assemblage the ground was 10 years ago when the ground first attacked Iran 
The prospect of facing hundreds of thousands of soldiers in the desert is daunting enough for the U.S. , but Iraq's chemical arsenal adds an additional dimension to the threat 
The Iraqis have moved surface-to-surface Scud missiles into Kuwait -- missiles that can carry chemical warheads 
President Bush yesterday singled out chemical weapons 
President Bush use , he said , `` would be intolerable . 
He added : `` It would be dealt with very , very severely . 
The potential U.S. response to a chemical weapons attack , according to U.S. officials , could include raids from B-52's now positioned on Diego Garcia , a base in the Indian Ocean 
U.S. officials most likely aim would be to pulverize Iraq's most sensitive weapons facilities , including those that produce chemical weapons and those that are experimenting with missiles and nuclear and biological weapons 
Another possible bombing target , of course , might be Saddam Hussein Iraqi ruler Saddam Hussein 
Another possible bombing target remained unclear precisely what force the U.S. is dispatching to meet the 100,000 or more heavily-armored Iraqi troops massed on Kuwait's border 
President Bush , Secretary of Defense Richard Cheney and Gen. Colin L. Powell , the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , refused to disclose the size of the force President Bush have committed 
`` President Bush will deploy adequate forces for the mission , '' said Gen. Powell 
Privately , U.S. officials say the estimates for the eventual U.S. commitment of troops , which began landing at Saudi bases yesterday afternoon , go as high as 40,000 , and would include a carefully-tailored mix of light and armored units that may have to remain there for weeks or months 
The duration of the U.S. commitment will , the officials added , depend on Iraq's response 
As time passes without an Iraqi military move , the U.S. position grows stronger , military experts say 
`` Every hour that goes by without an attack now is good , '' said Paul K. Davis , director of strategy assessment at the Rand Corp. in Santa Monica , Calif. `` an attack indicates that Paul K. Davis is probably facing up to the fact that things have not gone Paul K. Davis way in the world . 
Mr. Davis , who previously worked on Middle East deployment scenarios in the Pentagon , expects that the Middle East will take `` days , not hours '' for the U.S. soldiers and airmen arriving to acclimate the U.S. soldiers and airmen to the hot desert arena where the U.S. soldiers and airmen may have to fight 
The use of chemical weapons by Iraq would make the battle conditions all the more intolerable -- necessitating gas masks and rubberized suits in an area where temperatures regularly exceed 100 degrees 
`` The really appalling thing for American forces on the ground is the fact of being forced into anti-chemical warfare gear which will be quite intolerable in the desert , '' said Elizabeth Sigmund , a British chemical-weapon expert 
`` Let's hope the U.S. soldiers and airmen do n't have to . 
By her measure , Iraq has stockpiled thousands of tons of mustard gas , a World War I chemical that burns the skin 
her measure may also have hundreds of tons of Sarin , a nerve gas developed from insecticides by the Germans in World War II 
One drop on the skin can cause convulsions and sudden death 
Among Mr. Bush's advisors , though , Gen. Powell expressed the most confidence about the outcome 
Mr. Bush 's pointed out that the 3,000 paratroopers from the 82nd Airborne Division that were now encamped in the desert , primarily to guard U.S. fighter aircraft , have been trained to fight in heavy , charcoal-impregnated chemical weapons gear in the deserts of California 
Even the mere threat of chemical weapons may have a powerful psychological effect on troops and civilians -- especially technicians in the Saudi oil fields , who are particularly important now that the Saudis are being counted on to increase oil output significantly 
But no one can predict the mind of Saddam Hussein 
Instead of ordering his tanks , troops and chemical warheads into Saudi Arabia , he has the opportunity to create an incident today , using the supertanker that arrived at the Saudi port of Yanbu yesterday 
The port sits at the end of one of the major pipelines from Iraq's oil fields 
If , as some industry and other officials believe , the captain demands that the Saudis honor other officials contractual commitment to fill the tanker , the U.S. will have to decide whether to stop the giant ship , using the awesome combat power of the nearby carrier Eisenhower and the giant ship twelve escort ships 
While pondering the captain water options , Saddam Hussein must weigh the captain major vulnerability to attacks from the air 
More than 100 U.S. aircraft , largely F-15s coming from Langley Air Force Base in Virginia , have already arrived to augment the two carriers and the two carriers 80 warplanes each 
Geoffrey Kemp , a former National Security Council Middle East specialist now at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , says that despite National Security Council Middle East hard-fought years up against Iran , the Iraqi army has never before been confronted with that kind of air power 
Indeed , most of Iran's jet fighters were either destroyed in the early days of the war or were grounded for lack of spare parts 
`` Geoffrey Kemp think Iran 's jet fighters 're overestimating the ease with which he can roll into Saudi Arabia , '' Mr. Kemp said 
Although the sudden U.S. moves to Saudi Arabia may seem ad-hoc , they draw on the experience of many war games , such as the one staged in Leavenworth last June by the Army Materiel Command 
The Army's Saudi games began more than ten years ago , when U.S. and Saudi officials began to worry that Soviet armored forces could quickly sweep down through Iran or Iraq and take the oil fields 
U.S. policy assumed then that the Saudis would not give U.S. forces basing rights , at least not in the initial stages of a conflict 
The real-life scenario began Saturday when , according to Mr. Cheney , the White House began planning to send Richard Cheney to Saudi Arabia 
The following afternoon , Richard Cheney and Robert Gates , the president's deputy advisor for national security ; Paul Wolfowitz , Mr. Cheney's top policy aide ; and Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf , soon to become overall commander of the growing nucleus of U.S. forces , were aloft 
In Jeddah , after two hours of discussion , King Fahd , the Saudi ruler , gave the Saudi ruler approval to the military options the U.S. officials presented 
As Mr. Cheney put Jeddah , the Arab leaders agreed that Saddam Hussein's menacing behavior `` represented a qualitative shift in the rules of behavior '' in the Middle East 
After the Sunday meeting , Mr. Cheney immediately called President Bush and the president authorized Mr. Bush 's to give the orders to the Joint Chiefs to set President Bush plans in motion , assigning specific U.S. units 
The orders were issued Monday evening , and the first U.S. unit to move -- believed to be the command staff of Gen. Schwarzkopf's Central Command at Tampa , Fla. -- took off at 7:30 a.m. EDT Tuesday 
By midnight , paratroopers of the Ready Brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division , the nation's most often-alerted unit , were lining up at Pope Air Force Base in Fayetteville , N.C. , to take paratroopers of the Ready Brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division places on the hard , nylon-webbing seats in the transports that would carry paratroopers of the Ready Brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division and paratroopers of the Ready Brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division hastily-assembled gear on the long trip across the Atlantic 
Meanwhile , flight after flight of F-15's was taking off from Langley Air Force Base heading east , seeking the line of airborne tankers that were hovering , mid-ocean , to refuel paratroopers of the Ready Brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division 
What military planners call the `` aluminum bridge '' across the Atlantic was now in operation 
Hundreds of Air Force reservists -- men and women with practiced skills in the art of airlifts -- were moving across the U.S. to help prepare other units 
Army reservists prepared mechanized infantry units , which will likely use eight fast `` roll on roll off '' ships to carry Hundreds of Air Force reservists -- men and women with practiced skills in the art of airlifts -- across the Atlantic and through the Suez Canal 
In the Indian Ocean , the Navy was moving special pre-positioned ships toward the Gulf from Hundreds of Air Force reservists -- men and women with practiced skills in the art of airlifts -- base at Diego Garcia 
Hundreds of Air Force reservists -- men and women with practiced skills in the art of airlifts -- are designed to supply Marine forces , which can be flown rapidly from U.S. bases to `` marry up '' with Hundreds of Air Force reservists -- men and women with practiced skills in the art of airlifts -- equipment at points where the ships arrive 
Indeed , according to the Associated Press , hundreds of marines had already appeared last night near Khafji , an oil-terminal city near the Saudi border with Kuwait where the Japanese-owned Arabian Oil Co. operates 
That may indicate that the job of protecting the oil fields belongs to the Marines 
Gen. Powell dismissed concerns that the early arrivals might face the greatest danger , saying that fighters and attack aircraft from the carrier Independence , believed to be in the Gulf of Oman , were close enough to the Saudi shore to provide air cover to the arriving troops 
The Eisenhower , from the greatest danger position in the Red Sea , can also hit Iraq 
Soon a third carrier task force , led by the Saratoga , will arrive in the Eastern Mediterreanean , putting a third carrier task force within lethal range 
That group includes the battleship Wisconsin , carrying cruise missiles that can be aimed precisely toward Iraqi targets 
Each carrier hauls a kind of mini-Air Force , including radar search planes and planes specially equipped to jam enemy communications and radars , along with a powerful assemblage of bombers and fighters 
The planes use special `` buddy stores , '' or refueling kits that would allow bombers and fighters to reach bombers and fighters targets in the area -- generally more than 600 miles , or a little more than an hour's flying time , away -- and return safely 
Summing up his views of the potential enemy , Gen. Powell said , `` bombers and fighters view them as a capable military force 
But they 're not invincible and they 're not ten feet tall . 
