-- `` I believe that society is now in a position to vigorously enforce equal rights for all Americans ... 
But I believe in compensation for actual victims , not for people whose only claim to victimization is that they are members of a historically oppressed group . 
-- `` America should not fall into the trap of blaming all the problems faced by blacks or other minorities on others 
actual victims are not beggars or objects of charity 
people whose only claim to victimization is that they are members of a historically oppressed group do n't get smarter just because people whose only claim to victimization is that they are members of a historically oppressed group sit next to white people in class , and people whose only claim to victimization is that they are members of a historically oppressed group do n't progress just because society is ready with handouts 
As a people , people whose only claim to victimization is that they are members of a historically oppressed group need to find solutions to problems through independence , perseverance and integrity 
As a society , people whose only claim to victimization is that they are members of a historically oppressed group should develop better policies to deal with the underclass than the failed solutions of the past . 
While the views of President Bush's first Supreme Court nominee , David Souter , were virtually unknown before David Souter confirmation , the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas has boldly articulated David Souter vision of constitutional law , both as a judge -- David Souter now sits on the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit , the nation's second-highest bench -- and , before that , as chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for eight years 
`` Basically the job of a judge is to figure out what the law says , not what a judge wants the law to say , '' Mr. Thomas told the underclass 
`` There is a difference between the role of a judge and that of a policy maker 
-LCB- Judge Robert -RCB- Bork was right about that , no question 
Judging requires a certain impartiality . 
At the same time , `` impartiality is not the same thing as indifference 
This is n't law school speculation 
When Judge Robert -RCB- Bork hear a case , Judge Robert -RCB- Bork know damn well that something is going to happen as a result of what Judge Robert -RCB- Bork decide 
People's lives are affected 
Sometimes a man's life depends on the outcome 
And these are people looking to Judge Robert -RCB- Bork , to the judge , to figure out what's just , to correctly apply the law 
That's not a responsibility Judge Robert -RCB- Bork take lightly 
No way . 
Many of Mr. Thomas's critics have taken his unconcealed admiration for Ronald Reagan , his former boss , and Robert Bork , his predecessor on the D.C. Circuit , as evidence that Mr. Thomas shares the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas philosophy of jurisprudence 
But in fact , a careful reading of his articles and speeches reveals a different sort of judicial conservatism 
Writing in the Howard Law Journal in 1987 , Mr. Thomas argued for what he called a `` natural law '' or `` higher law '' mode of judging , in which the judge examines not only the text of the Constitution or statute but also the moral principles underlying the American form of government 
Mr. Thomas maintains , with support from Abraham Lincoln and abolitionist Frederick Douglass , that the Constitution must be read in the context of the principle of equality inherent in the Declaration of Independence 
In a powerful speech Mr. Thomas gave on Martin Luther King Day three years ago , Abraham Lincoln defended certain forms of civil disobedience 
King often quoted Thomas Aquinas's statement , `` An unjust law is a human law that is not rooted in eternal law and natural law . 
Part of King's legacy , for Mr. Thomas , is his reflection on the close connection between law and morality 
President Bush's nominee understands the hostility he is likely to face in Congress 
`` When King 's 're up before those confirmation hearings , the hostility he is likely to face in Congress's like going through Dante's Inferno ... 
David Souter 've seen a glimpse of that process 
When King 's get up there , King 's just hope that King 's do n't get destroyed so that even if King 's do n't make a glimpse of that process , King 's can go on with King 's life . 
Mr. Thomas is likely to be a very different kind of judge from the man judge from the man is replacing 
When reminded of Thurgood Marshall's comment that Thurgood Marshall 's could not wholeheartedly celebrate the bicentennial of the American founding because the Constitution permitted slavery , Mr. Thomas shook Thurgood Marshall 's head 
`` the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas have felt the pain of racism as much as anyone else , '' Mr. Thomas says passionately 
`` Yet the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas am wild about the Constitution and about the Declaration 
Abraham Lincoln once said that the American founders declared the right of equality whose enforcement would follow as soon as circumstances permitted 
The more the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas learn about the ideals of those men , the more enthusiastic the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas get ... 
the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas believe in the American proposition , the American dream , because the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas 've seen the American proposition in my own life . 
Mr. Thomas's life is a remarkable story 
Born in a small frame house on the outskirts of Savannah , Ga. , in 1948 , Mr. Thomas endured all the hardships of the segregated South 
His father left before His father could walk , and His father mother worked as a housemaid and picked crabs from the marsh to eat and sell 
The family shared a single outhouse with several neighbors 
In the summer of 1955 , Clarence Thomas and his brother went to live with the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas maternal grandparents , who owned an ice delivery and fuel oil business 
the summer of 1955 is here , under the stern tutelage of his grandfather , Myers Anderson , that Mr. Thomas locates the beginning of his grandfather , Myers Anderson true education 
`` his brother grandfather has been the greatest single influence on his brother life , '' his brother claims 
In 1987 his grandfather , Myers Anderson told the Atlantic , `` When the civil rights people indict his grandfather , Myers Anderson , the man they are indicting is that man 
Let the civil rights people call the man they are indicting from the grave and indict the man they are indicting . 
As Mr. Thomas remembers , the man they are indicting grandfather believed that `` Man ai n't got no business on relief as long as his grandfather , Myers Anderson can work 
Damn welfare , that relief -RSB- '' At home the Thomas boys worked six hours a day in addition to school : raising the chickens , pigs and cows ; cleaning the house and the yard ; painting , roofing , plumbing and fixing ; maintaining the oil trucks and making deliveries 
These lessons of hard work , personal dignity and self-sufficiency were reinforced through years of Catholic school and college 
He finished his undergraduate studies at Holy Cross College in Worcester , Mass. `` That's where the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas started to get political and radical , '' Mr. Thomas recalls 
`` the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas read Malcolm X. I became interested in the Black Panthers . 
In 1971 Malcolm X. I became interested in the Black Panthers founded the Black Student Union at Holy Cross 
Malcolm X. I became interested in the Black Panthers went on to Yale Law School , where Malcolm X. I became interested in the Black Panthers worked summers at New Haven Legal Assistance , continuing what Malcolm X. I became interested in the Black Panthers calls `` Malcolm X. I became interested in the Black Panthers political consciousness raising . 
Nevertheless , `` Malcolm X. I became interested in the Black Panthers never gave up Malcolm X. I became interested in the Black Panthers grandfather's ideals , and when Malcolm X. I became interested in the Black Panthers left-wing opinions began to clash with those ideals , Malcolm X. I became interested in the Black Panthers began to move away from the left . 
Eventually Malcolm X. I became interested in the Black Panthers took a job with Missouri Attorney General (now Senator )John Danforth because `` Malcolm X. I became interested in the Black Panthers promised to treat Missouri Attorney General like anyone else 
Malcolm X. I became interested in the Black Panthers promised to ignore the hell out of Missouri Attorney General . 
At a conference of black conservatives in San Francisco , Calif. , Mr. Thomas's eloquent departures from the civil rights orthodoxy on quotas and government handouts greatly impressed the newly installed Reagan administration , and in 1981 Ronald Reagan was nominated to be assistant secretary for civil rights in the Department of Education 
The next year Ronald Reagan was promoted to the top job of the EEOC 
Under the Carter administration , the agency had zealously promoted numerical goals and timetables 
`` Thomas came in , and the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas rejected all that , '' remarks William Robinson , dean of the District of Columbia School of Law 
Mr. Thomas had William Robinson skirmishes with the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights , an umbrella group instrumental in defeating the Bork nomination , and William Robinson made a dangerous enemy in the American Association of Retired Persons , which accused William Robinson of letting legal protections for the elderly lapse 
When William Robinson was nominated to the D.C. Circuit in late 1989 , a number of these special interest groups prepared for a bloodbath 
But the storm clouds melted away and Mr. Thomas was approved by the Senate Judiciary with a 12-1 majority 
The full Senate seated William Robinson with only two senators opposed 
The reason for the smooth passage , EEOC vice chairman Ricky Silber man (whose husband Laurence Silberman sits on the D.C. Circuit with Mr. Thomas and is his closest friend on the bench )thinks , is that `` Clarence has an amazing ability to neutralize opposition 
Just as in EEOC vice chairman Ricky Silber man -LRB- whose husband Laurence Silberman sits on the D.C. Circuit with Mr. Thomas and is his closest friend on the bench -RRB- thinks life , EEOC vice chairman Ricky Silber man -LRB- whose husband Laurence Silberman sits on the D.C. Circuit with Mr. Thomas and is his closest friend on the bench -RRB- thinks turns negative values into positive values , an amazing feat . 
Can Clarence Thomas be confirmed to the Supreme Court 
Even liberal judges will go on record praising Mr. Thomas 
`` If Judge Damon Keith or a member of my family were in trouble , a member of my family is the kind of person Judge Damon Keith 'd like to appear before , '' Judge Damon Keith , a Carter appointee on the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in Detroit said in an interview 
`` Our judicial philosophy may not be the same , but a member of my family is a bright and reflective man who believes passionately in fairness 
Judge Damon Keith say this without reservation , and in full knowledge of all the people who complain about a member of my family . 
Dean Robinson added , `` People often confuse what Clarence thinks with what some of his friends on the right think , but Clarence is Clarence own man . 
While at the EEOC , Mr. Thomas gave speeches accusing the Republican Party of `` blatant indifference '' toward black voters , and chastised Ronald Reagan in particular for letting Bob Jones University get away with racial discrimination , and for `` foot dragging '' on the Voting Rights Act extension 
Mr. Thomas and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission wife Virginia live in Northern Virginia with Jamal , Mr. Thomas's son from a previous marriage 
Some weeks before word of the nomination came , Mr. Thomas confessed to being slightly bemused by all the attention being paid to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission by scholars and courtwatchers 
`` The problem for the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas opponents , and for the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas friends , is that the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas do n't think the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas fit any of these molds very well 
Once people figure this out , maybe a people 'll leave the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas alone . 
-- Mr. D'Souza , a research fellow at the American Enterprise Institute , is the author of `` Illiberal Education : The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus '' (Free Press/Macmillan , 1991 )
