But Mr. Sununu's removal may not solve the president's immediate problems 
Instead , Mr. Sununu 's removal could exacerbate the criticism from the right , where conservatives are increasingly expressing conservatives doubts about the president , and where the president 's renomination is under challenge 
Moreover , Mr. Sununu's ouster is unlikely to result in any major changes in Mr. Bush's economic policies , which have attracted much criticism recently 
The nature of the final year of Mr. Bush's first term now hinges on whom Mr. Bush 's picks to be Mr. Bush 's White House chief of staff and whom Mr. Bush 's chooses to run his re-election campaign 
One high-ranking official said Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner is almost certain to get one of those two jobs -- probably the chief of staff position 
Mr. Sununu previously was offered the opportunity to switch jobs with Mr. Skinner , administration officials say , but turned the opportunity to switch jobs with Mr. Skinner down 
Mr. Skinner has the advantage of an easy working relationship with Mr. Bush and has been a respected political adviser on issues beyond Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner transportation portfolio 
Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner has also developed a strong relationship with Vice President Dan Quayle 
Moreover , while Mr. Bush is under attack for lack of attention to domestic policy , Mr. Skinner can claim credit for shepherding major highway and mass transit legislation through Congress 
But conservatives complain Mr. Skinner is a pragmatist in Mr. Bush's mold rather than a true conservative 
In his first year in office , for example , Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner angered conservatives by declining to use Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner authority to relax fuel economy standards for autos ; more recently , Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner has vigorously fought any tightening of those standards 
Moreover , top Republicans on Capitol Hill , as well as some administration officials , say Mr. Skinner has a penchant for abrasiveness , although Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner is hardly Mr. Sununu's equal on that score 
Another person mentioned for the chief of staff post is Defense Secretary Dick Cheney 
Many prominent Republican politicians as well as businessmen would love to see New Hampshire Republican get the job 
The defense secretary is widely credited for The defense secretary performance during the Persian Gulf War and is well-remembered for The defense secretary stint as chief of staff under Gerald Ford a decade and a half ago 
But the conservative defense secretary has said the conservative defense secretary would n't take the job again under any circumstances 
Former Rep. Bill Frenzel , a close friend of the president's , is also mentioned as a possible choice 
And GOP Sen. Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas called the president aboard Air Force One yesterday and urged that Carla Hills , the U.S. trade representative , be given the job 
Mr. Sununu will leave his current post Dec. 15 and become a special presidential counselor with cabinet rank until March 1 
The end of Mr. Sununu's reign at the White House came without the blustery self-confidence that was the mark of the governor's suzerainty 
In the past several days the chief of staff , who sometimes seemed to regard members of Congress as his staff , and who regularly dismissed suggestions from Republican political strategists , became a suitor rather than an aggressor 
the chief of staff , who sometimes seemed to regard members of Congress as his staff , and who regularly dismissed suggestions from Republican political strategists was almost desperately casting around for support in the official Washington circles that the chief of staff , who sometimes seemed to regard members of Congress as his staff , and who regularly dismissed suggestions from Republican political strategists disregarded only a few weeks ago 
By the time the chief of staff , who sometimes seemed to regard members of Congress as his staff , and who regularly dismissed suggestions from Republican political strategists and the president agreed on his departure , Mr. Sununu , who made self-confidence a badge of honor , was despondent 
Hours earlier , the chief of staff , who sometimes seemed to regard members of Congress as his staff , and who regularly dismissed suggestions from Republican political strategists had told confidantes that the chief of staff , who sometimes seemed to regard members of Congress as his staff , and who regularly dismissed suggestions from Republican political strategists departure was assured 
But even as the chief of staff , who sometimes seemed to regard members of Congress as his staff , and who regularly dismissed suggestions from Republican political strategists made telephone calls around the country the chief of staff , who sometimes seemed to regard members of Congress as his staff , and who regularly dismissed suggestions from Republican political strategists was still seeking signs of support , often from those the chief of staff , who sometimes seemed to regard members of Congress as his staff , and who regularly dismissed suggestions from Republican political strategists had spurned in office 
The Sununu saga lasted so long in part because of Mr. Sununu 's survival instincts -- honed as much in the halls of academe while a professor at Tufts University as in the austere state house on a Concord hill 
The former governor's extended tenure also reflected the president's unwillingness to dismiss people who have served The former governor 's with loyalty 
It was , after all , Mr. Sununu who salvaged Mr. Bush's flagging GOP nomination struggle in 1988 , when Mr. Bush 's assembled an impressive political organization that beat back both Sen. Robert Dole of Kansas and the conventional political wisdom in the New Hampshire primary 
But while Mr. Sununu's resignation may have been personally painful for Mr. Bush , the president apparently decided Mr. Sununu 's resignation had become necessary to respond to mounting criticism from both Democrats and Republicans for his administration's handling of the country's economic problems , and to increasing disquiet from Democrats political advisers who were concerned about Democrats slippage in public opinion polls 
Nevertheless , administration officials say Mr. Sununu 's resignation's unlikely Mr. Sununu's departure will mean major changes in economic strategy 
Nor is Mr. Sununu 's resignation likely to please the White House's conservative critics , who frequently relied on Mr. Sununu to push the White House 's conservative critics causes 
Two influential GOP lawmakers , Rep. Henry Hyde of Illinois and Rep. Vin Weber of Minnesota , even took the unusual step of calling a news conference yesterday to voice Rep. Henry Hyde of Illinois support for Rep. Vin Weber of Minnesota 
But despite Mr. Sununu's ties to conservatives , Mr. Sununu 's had in recent months abandoned conservatives economic agenda 
One administration official noted that Mr. Sununu was among those who argued most strongly against reopening the fight over a capital gains tax cut this year ; One administration official argued it would subject Mr. Bush to unnecessary and unproductive political heat 
Mr. Sununu , said the official , `` is really more of a pragmatist . 
Another administration official , however , said Mr. Sununu's departure may force Mr. Bush to get more involved in economic issues 
Mr. Sununu had sometimes denied access to officials who wished to talk to the president about economic and domestic issues 
One area where Mr. Sununu's influence was clearly felt was abortion , where Mr. Sununu 's held the administration to a stringent antiabortion stance 
Anti-abortion groups were among the first to express regret over Mr. Sununu's departure 
According to several adminstration officials , Mr. Sununu also encouraged Mr. Bush to take a firm position on issues where Mr. Bush had no strong views , such as vetoing appropriations bills for the District of Columbia that allowed the District of Columbia to use the District of Columbia own , locally generated funds for abortions for poor women 
As a result , Mr. Sununu became a favorite of many social conservatives who distrusted Mr. Bush's roots in the moderate wing of Mr. Bush 's party 
Mr. Sununu 's departure is likely to increase many social conservatives suspicions , unless Mr. Bush names a successor who is viewed as a conservative 
Mr. Sununu began to face rough political waters a year ago when , as one of Mr. Bush's chief negotiators on the deficit reduction agreement , Mr. Bush 's bruised congressional egos from both political parties with heavy-handed lobbying and what many saw as disregard for their stature as elected representatives 
Earlier this year Mr. Sununu 's made headlines again when Mr. Sununu 's extensive use of government airplanes for political and personal travel became public 
The Sununu saga ended with a handwritten note to Mr. Bush on a trip that Mr. Sununu knew would seal Mr. Sununu 's fate 
The White House said the chief of staff had offered to resign in the Oval Office Monday , but the matter apparently was n't resolved 
Mr. Sununu , according to associates close to Mr. Sununu 's , planned to confront the president on his trip yesterday , asking the president on his trip for an expression of 100 % support to be made both privately and to the White House press corps when Air Force One returned to Washington 
Mr. Sununu 's knew that without that expression of full support , Mr. Sununu 's would have to depart 
The president had already been searching for a way to ease Mr. Sununu out of Mr. Sununu 's post gracefully 
That effort , however , had faced formidable obstacles 
The former governor was cool to the idea of accepting a cabinet position even in the early days of the Bush transition , and indicated that such a move would be unacceptable now 
At the same time , Republican political strategists calculated that Mr. Sununu would be a liability in the national campaign structure because of an abrasive operating style that had alienated longtime Bush allies 
And the suggestion of dispatching New Hampshire Republican back home to New Hampshire to run the re-election campaign was blocked when Mr. Bush decided to have Mr. Bush 's campaign there run by former GOP Gov. Hugh Gregg and Mr. Bush 's son , current Gov. Judd Gregg , both of whom regard Mr. Sununu with suspicion 
The Greggs , in fact , scheduled a meeting for this evening in the governor's mansion to plan strategy for the New Hampshire primary , where Mr. Bush faces a challenge from conservative columnist Pat Buchanan 
`` a Gregg operation's a Gregg operation , '' said a leading New Hampshire Republican 
The announcement of Mr. Sununu's departure came in Meridian , Miss. , where the White House distributed photocopies of the handwritten resignation letter 
Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater did n't answer reporters ' questions 
In Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater letter , Mr. Sununu hailed the `` chemistry , friendship , caring and irreverence '' Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater encountered during Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater tenure in the Oval Office 
But the letter also contained elements of the traits that led to Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater downfall 
Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater seemed to indicate that Mr. Bush's wishes had dictated the combative style that made Mr. Bush 's so many enemies in Washington 
Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater remained `` ready to help 


in pit bull mode or pussycat mode (your choice , as always ). 
The comment echoed the latest episode that had called Mr. Sununu's effectiveness into question 
Late last month , in a television interview , Mr. Sununu suggested that President Bush had erred by ad-libbing into a speech Mr. Bush 's view that banks should lower credit-card interest rates 
The result was that a Republican lawmaker , Sen. Alfonse D'Amato of New York , swiftly introduced legislation that caused a furor in financial markets 
Shortly before boarding the presidential aircraft in Mississippi , Mr. Sununu told reporters that Mr. Sununu 's `` knew the rules of the game when Sen. Alfonse D'Amato of New York came to town . 
But Mr. Sununu 's fall yesterday reflected Mr. Sununu 's ignorance of those rules and Mr. Sununu 's refusal to abide by reporters ' 
Mr. Sununu , who plans to go into business to improve upon Mr. Sununu 's government salary , also obliquely noted the reputation that has dogged Mr. Sununu 's tenure : `` Mr. Sununu 's think a great President know that the responsibility and authority (contrary to the legends out there )never meant as much to Mr. Sununu 's as the chance to assist a great President to be (and to be recognized )a great President . 
In Mr. Sununu 's reply , Mr. Bush said Mr. Sununu 's accepted Mr. Sununu's resignation `` with reluctance , regret and a sense of personal loss . 
-- John Harwood contributed to this article 
