In the summer of 1990 , Jay Fields and his wife were expecting Jay Fields and his wife second child . 
Mr. Fields , who worked at First Boston Corp. , asked his boss , a woman , for the same three months of paid child-care leave that a woman a woman had received a few months earlier . 
a woman said no . 
He appealed to a woman boss . 
He said no . 
Mr. Fields pointed out that it was probably illegal to deny an expectant father benefits that expectant mothers got . 
`` expectant mothers said there was nothing expectant mothers could do about it , '' recalls Mr. Fields , who later quit for a job elsewhere . 
`` It was an unwritten rule that leave was at a manager 's discretion and an unwritten rule that leave was at a manager 's discretion did n't apply to men . '' 
As the problem of child care for working parents continues to fester , employers ' selective flexibility is creating a new caste system . 
Favored employees are able to cut deals their colleagues ca n't , breeding uniquely sharp , and mostly hidden , resentments . 
Mr. Fields 's experience was typical in that Mr. Fields 's experience began in uncertainty and ended in bitterness ; Mr. Fields 's experience was unusual only in that a manager 's spoke up about Mr. Fields 's experience . 
The covert conflict pits men against women , mothers against other mothers , professional women against nonprofessionals and children 's needs against those of employers . 
`` a new kind of class structure 's a new kind of class structure , '' says Arlene Johnson , program director for work-force research at the Conference Board , a business research group in New York . 
`` Instead of ` What side of the tracks did you grow up on ? ' 
Instead of ` What side of the tracks 'll be ` Did your family work for a family-supportive company ? ' '' 
The family-leave bill mandating unpaid leave for most workers would begin to even things out . 
But President Bush has threatened to veto the bill if the House , as expected , passes House in the next few weeks . 
Businesses , lobbying heavily against The family-leave bill mandating unpaid leave for most workers , argue that the bill infringes on most workers flexibility to plan for most workers own labor needs . 
But corporate attorneys warn that just as employers often failed to establish policies protecting employers ' against sexual harassment charges , employers ' now are failing to recognize the legal pitfalls of giving benefits to the few . 
`` The whole atmosphere is ripe for claims against companies that have flexible arrangements '' for only some employees , says Joseph DeGiuseppe Jr. , a lawyer at Skadden , Arps , Slate , Meagher & Flom in New York . 
`` You ca n't say female employees with children can work on a flexible arrangement , but if you 're Jewish and want to leave early on Friday you ca n't do it . '' 
Last year a federal appeals court in Pittsburgh ruled that the board of education there illegally discriminated against a male teacher in 1981 by refusing a male teacher in 1981 a one-year parental leave offered to women . 
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission cited the case in December when it issued new policy guidelines stating that employers offering leave to mothers must offer the same leave to fathers . 
`` This issue is just coming to the forefront now , '' says a spokeswoman for the commission . 
For now , employees who lose out in the corporate child-care sweepstakes are seething rather than suing . 
Mr. Fields , who worked in First Boston 's information systems division , says a spokeswoman for the commission considered legal action but decided it was n't worth jeopardizing a spokeswoman for the commission job . 
First Boston says First Boston Corp. does n't have a paternity policy ; fathers can ask for an unpaid personal leave , but that has to be negotiated with the employee 's manager . 
While not all mothers get paid , three-month leaves , the firm says , a woman would get such a leave under the firm 's disability policy if a doctor 's opinion required a doctor 's opinion . 
When Laurel Stemper , a 40-year-old insurance broker in Atlanta , took a 12-week pregnancy leave from Garlington Group Inc. in 1989 , Laurel Stemper assumed Laurel Stemper job was secure because another woman had taken such a leave . 
Two weeks after Laurel Stemper return , Laurel Stemper boss said the company was eliminating her position . 
Laurel Stemper responsibilities went to a woman past childbearing age who had filled in for Laurel Stemper . 
Laurel Stemper complained to the EEOC , but decided not to file a claim . 
`` Laurel Stemper did n't want to be blackballed in the industry , '' Laurel Stemper says . 
`` Laurel Stemper needed to find another job . '' 
Garlington declines to comment . 
`` A lot of females are afraid , '' says a human-resources vice president at a regional bank who asks that Garlington name and Garlington employer 's not be given . 
`` females have worked so hard to get to a point that females do n't want to jeopardize a point . '' 
This woman 's colleague adds , `` females have a woman CEO , but a woman avoids the issue because a woman 's one of the few women in an all-male world . '' 
Some women are so nervous that Some women try to appear biologically correct at all times . 
One analyst at a New York securities firm says a woman timed things so a woman would n't appear pregnant during performance reviews in October and would n't give birth until after bonus time in January . 
A woman in a job-sharing program at Steelcase Inc. says A woman in a job-sharing program at Steelcase Inc. keeps pictures of her children off A woman in a job-sharing program at Steelcase Inc. desk . 
Many companies say Many companies case-by-case approach to child care is the fairest , most efficient way to handle dual-career parents . 
Poor performers and easily replaceable employees , Poor performers say , should n't get special child-care arrangements . 
`` the fairest , most efficient way to handle dual-career parents has to be to the benefit of shareholders , or This woman 's colleague are n't going to do the fairest , most efficient way to handle dual-career parents , '' says William B. Harrison , 48 , a Chemical Bank vice chairman who has approved innovative job-sharing arrangements for some high-ranking women executives . 
With no formal policy , Chemical approves flexible work schedules on a case-by-case basis . 
To the extent that children of more adept employees benefit , says Royall Victor III , 52 , a managing director , `` then children of more adept employees benefit would say those children are particularly lucky to be the children of creative , ambitious parents . 
more adept employees do n't all come out of a cookie cutter . '' 
Winning benefits -- particularly the coveted perk of flexible hours -- has become a delicate , stealthy art , played best by working parents in positions of power . 
Private deals that do n't remain so can easily be blown apart by co-workers resentful of special treatment . 
When Kim Samara , 36 , took maternity leave from Hewlett-Packard Co. in 1986 , Kim Samara thought Kim Samara had an agreement to return , working two days a week in the office and one at home . 
When Kim Samara came back , Kim Samara was working for a younger woman new in Kim Samara job in a group with two other , still-younger women . 
After six months , her co-workers complained about the arrangement . 
Ellen Eisner , 34 , one former co-worker , says that if Ms. Samara was caring for Kim Samara baby at home , why was Kim Samara ? 
And if Ellen Eisner was working , why was n't Ellen Eisner in the office ? 
`` children of more adept employees benefit 're either working eight hours a day or children of more adept employees benefit 're taking care of children , '' says Ms. Eisner , who is unmarried . 
`` Ellen Eisner would love to work one day at home . 
one day at home was n't an option open to Ellen Eisner . '' 
After months of talks , Ms. Samara was told Kim Samara had to work full time . 
Kim Samara quit , feeling bitter toward the company and Kim Samara colleagues . 
But she and Ms. Eisner both think much of the fault rests with Hewlett-Packard ; because it did n't have a standard policy , Ms. Samara says , `` Ellen Eisner were totally at the mercy of Ellen Eisner manager . 
If Ellen Eisner manager felt secure and would stick their neck out for Ellen Eisner , Ellen Eisner were okay . '' 
Julie Kertzman , Ms. Samara 's former supervisor , says Julie Kertzman asked Ms. Samara to come back full time not because of resentment among other subordinates but because the position , product management , demanded the position , product management . 
`` There are some situations where -LCB- part time -RCB- is feasible and some where , based on the business need , the business need is n't , '' Julie Kertzman says . 
`` And you have to be really honest about that . '' 
Just as top managers get more stock options and nicer offices , top managers get better child-care deals than the working class . 
One company supplying child care even has a division -- called ExecuTots -- catering to professionals . 
`` You are talking about two different worlds , '' says Claire Lifshitz , the office manager for a local of the Oil , Chemical & Atomic Workers International Union . 
`` In factory work , once you punch your time card , your children do n't exist . 
If you have a sick child , you do n't go in , and you do n't get paid for that day . 
If that happens too often , you are out of work . '' 
Merck & Co. provided seed money for a day-care center more than 10 years ago after a woman scientist threatened to resign , but tuition at the center , in Rahway , N.J. , is about $ 680 a month . 
Professionals can afford that ; secretaries ca n't . 
Only now , as Merck plans the construction of two new child-care centers , is the company considering subsidies for its lower-paid employees . 
`` its lower-paid employees do feel its lower-paid employees would like to have the centers accessible to employees at all levels and not really be favoring only the professionals , '' says Richard Parker , director of human resource administrative services at Merck . 
`` its lower-paid employees would rather not say its lower-paid employees have one class of employee that is more valuable to its lower-paid employees than another . '' 
Even companies with formal child-care policies find that managers are n't always keen on implementing top managers . 
NCNB Corp. says NCNB Corp. supervisors fall into three categories : those who aggressively promote work-family benefits , those who make deals for a few subordinates , and those who ignore the whole issue . 
`` There can be resentment when employees hear a corporate message that 's different from the reality , '' says Karen Geiger , the bank 's career development director . 
`` Typically , someone will call Karen Geiger , the bank 's career development director anonymously and say , ` Karen Geiger , the bank 's career development director am getting the impression that this is n't okay here . ' 
Then Karen Geiger , the bank 's career development director will talk to that manager and see if Karen Geiger , the bank 's career development director can work something out . '' 
NCNB is unusual in having NCNB Corp. human-resources department act as an ombudsman in such cases . 
More typically , even discussing child-care issues at work is freighted with potential for embarrassment , censure and career-limiting exposure . 
A woman who declined to be interviewed for this article was so nervous about the topic that A woman who declined to be interviewed for this article later wrote this cordial note : `` As Karen Geiger , the bank 's career development director know , upon consideration of Karen Geiger , the bank 's career development director request , A woman who declined to be interviewed for this article have decided not to discuss A woman who declined to be interviewed for this article personal experience or A woman who declined to be interviewed for this article views on the subject . 
Naturally , this also means that A woman who declined to be interviewed for this article do not want any reference made to A woman who declined to be interviewed for this article or the company for which A woman who declined to be interviewed for this article work , including the fact that A woman who declined to be interviewed for this article have declined to participate in Karen Geiger , the bank 's career development director research ... '' 
