But barring damaging unforeseen revelations about Judge Thomas , Democrats will have a hard time mounting a broad-based campaign against the affable 43-year-old , who is smart , tough and speaks powerfully about overcoming racism and poverty in the deep South 
`` Anybody who takes Mr. Thomas 's on in the area of civil rights is taking on the grandson of a sharecropper , '' observes conservative Republican Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah 
Judge Thomas's nomination yesterday got a restrained reaction from many Senate Democrats 
Civil rights groups , too , said Civil rights groups will have to study Judge Thomas record , both in Judge Thomas brief tenure on the appeals court and as chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission during the Reagan administration 
Mr. Bush's choice is a bold political move , coming in the midst of the current debate over civil rights legislation and quotas 
The president has nominated a man who would be not merely the second black to serve on the Supreme Court , but a man who embodies the ideal of personal achievement rather than reliance on government programs for a leg up 
The choice also will put Democrats on the defensive : Judge Thomas draws praise even from some liberals 
`` Democrats has been a very good colleague , '' says Chief Judge Abner Mikva of the appeals court here , a former Democratic congressman 
Moreover , Democrats specifically urged the president to consider appointing a minority-group member to fill the vacancy that was created when Thurgood Marshall announced Thurgood Marshall retirement last Thursday 
Judge Thomas's association with moderate Republican Sen. John Danforth of Missouri , for whom Judge Thomas worked after Judge Thomas graduation from Yale Law School in 1974 , will also weigh in Judge Thomas favor 
Mr. Danforth's support will help reassure many moderate Senate Democrats and Republicans , much as New Hampshire GOP Sen. Warren Rudman's sponsorship of David Souter did after President Bush nominated President Bush last July 
While liberals will focus on Judge Thomas's legal inexperience , Judge Thomas record on the bench does n't present some liberals with the sort of target some liberals had with the articulated , sharply conservative legal views of Robert Bork , whose Supreme Court nomination was defeated in 1987 
A number of Senate Democrats , including Judiciary Chairman Joseph Biden of Delaware , stressed when Judge Thomas was confirmed for the appeals court that Judge Thomas would face tougher scrutiny if Judge Thomas were nominated for the Supreme Court 
But that will be a difficult position to defend in light of Mr. Thomas's success last year in deflecting liberal criticism 
Judge Thomas's strong opposition to affirmative action and the abortion debate will be grist for his confirmation hearings 
`` Democratic Sen. Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio , who was the lone opponent last year in the Senate Judiciary Committee 's 12-to-1 approval of his appeals court nomination do n't know where Judge Thomas stands on a woman's right to choose , but Democratic Sen. Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio , who was the lone opponent last year in the Senate Judiciary Committee 's 12-to-1 approval of his appeals court nomination intend to find out , '' said Democratic Sen. Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio , who was the lone opponent last year in the Senate Judiciary Committee's 12-to-1 approval of his appeals court nomination 
`` Women have a right to know whether Judge Thomas is committed to protecting Women fundamental rights . 
Abortion-rights groups are also likely to be concerned about the fact that Judge Thomas is a Catholic who spent a year in a Missouri seminary in the 1960s pondering the priesthood 
As other Supreme Court nominees have done , however , Judge Thomas is likely to go to great lengths to avoid committing Judge Thomas on abortion , an issue that is expected to come before the court again and again 
The reaction from civil rights groups was muted 
Ralph Neas , executive director of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights , said , `` With so many constitutional rights and personal liberties at stake , the Senate must make sure Clarence Thomas has demonstrated a commitment to equal opportunity and equal justice under the law ... 
Civil rights groups urge the Senate not to rush to judgment . 
To friends and colleagues of Judge Thomas , his own life story is the most compelling thing about Mr. Thomas 's 
With Justice Marshall's retirement , civil rights advocates worried that there would no longer be anyone on the court who had experienced racial segregation 
Though Judge Thomas may not find favor with those groups , the fact is that Judge Thomas knew nothing but segregation as Judge Thomas grew up outside Savannah , Ga. , in the 1950s 
Born into rural poverty , Judge Thomas lived in a house with no bathroom until Judge Thomas was seven years old 
His father left when His father was young , and his mother sent His father to live with his grandparents 
The grandparents raised His father with strict discipline , instilling in His father a strong work ethic , and sent His father to an all-black Catholic school run by white nuns 
Yesterday , speaking at a news conference at President Bush's home in Kennebunkport , Maine , Mr. Thomas choked up when President Bush talked about President Bush grandparents ' influence 
For a moment , a moment appeared that President Bush might not be able to finish President Bush statement 
He praised them as well as `` my mother and the nuns , all of whom were adamant that I grow up to make something of myself . 
As a child , Judge Thomas said , `` Judge Thomas could not dare dream that Judge Thomas would ever see the Supreme Court , not to mention be nominated to Supreme Court 
Indeed , Judge Thomas most vivid childhood memory of the Supreme Court was the ` Impeach Earl Warren ' signs which lined Highway 17 near Savannah 
Judge Thomas did n't quite understand who this Earl Warren fellow was , but Judge Thomas knew this Earl Warren fellow was in some kind of trouble . 
The first person in his family to attend college , Judge Thomas spent a year at Immaculate Conception Seminary in Conception Junction , Mo. , before transferring to Holy Cross College in Worcester , Mass. 
After law school , The first person in his family went to work for Mr. Danforth , who was then Missouri's attorney general 
After two years in the Monsanto Co. legal department , Judge Thomas rejoined Mr. Danforth , by then a U.S. senator 
Judge Thomas then served for a year as chief of the U.S. Education Department's civil rights office before President Reagan appointed President Reagan chairman of the EEOC in 1982 
His eight-year tenure at the EEOC was marked by controversy 
Judge Thomas changed the agency's approach to de-emphasize settling large numbers of cases quickly , concentrating instead on instances in which specific victims of discrimination could be identified 
In age discrimination , particularly , that created case backlogs that distressed advocates for senior citizens 
Liberals charged that , across-the-board , the EEOC under Mr. Thomas's leadership did n't aggressively attack civil rights violations 
`` As chairman of the EEOC , Clarence Thomas failed to demonstrate a commitment to civil rights and liberties , '' says Nan Aron of the liberal Alliance for Justice 
But Mr. Thomas had strong views and did n't shrink from expressing some liberals 
Rather , Mr. Thomas 's seized every opportunity -- including writing letters to editors , op-ed page articles and book reviews -- to attack affirmative action as patronizing and as an ineffective remedy for discrimination 
In a 1987 letter to The Wall Street Journal , Mr. Thomas 's said , `` Mr. Thomas 's firmly insist that the Constitution be interpreted in a colorblind fashion 
... Mr. Thomas 's emphasize black self-help , as opposed to racial quotas and other race-conscious legal devices that only further and deepen the original problem . 
Since Mr. Thomas 's has been on the federal bench , liberal and conservative legal analysts agree , the relatively few opinions Mr. Thomas 's has written do n't suggest a strong ideological slant , although Mr. Thomas 's has tended to rule for the government in criminal cases and in business regulatory matters 
One highly controversial case on which Judge Thomas sat earlier this year has yet to be decided 
A three-judge panel of the appeals court is considering the constitutionality of a Federal Communications Commission policy giving preference to women for broadcast licenses 
The others on the panel were Judges Mikva and James Buckley , a conservative 
The questions are : Will Judge Thomas use the case to once again attack affirmative action , and will that pour fuel on Mr. Thomas 's confirmation fight 
Judge Thomas is well-liked by colleagues , both at the EEOC , where the new headquarters building is named for Judge Thomas , and at the appeals court 
Ricky Silberman , a close friend who is vice chairman of the EEOC and whose husband , Laurence , sits on the appeals court , says : `` Ricky Silberman is a very simple person who loves to say a farm boy was a farm boy and remains a farm boy . 
A sometime jogger and weightlifter , Ricky Silberman enjoys reading and listening to music ranging from classical to Ricky Silberman favorite , country singer George Jones 
For much of Ricky Silberman tenure at the EEOC , Mr. Thomas was a single parent , raising a son , Jamal 
Some friends have expressed concern that the bitterness of the divorce from Ricky Silberman first wife could spill over into Ricky Silberman confirmation hearings 
Ricky Silberman second wife , Virginia , a deputy assistant secretary at the Labor Department , is white 
In light of the administration's strong attack on racial quotas in hiring , President Bush's selection of a black man to fill Justice Marshall's seat brought questions about whether President Bush was in fact observing a quota on the court 
In his press conference , Mr. Bush strongly denied the very thought of that , insisting that race was n't a factor in the selection of Judge Thomas 
`` The fact that President Bush is black -- a minority -- has nothing to do with this , '' the president said 
`` President Bush is the best qualified . 
Judge Thomas , who just turned 43 last week , would be the youngest Supreme Court justice of the past 100 years with the exception of William O. Douglas , who joined the court when Mr. Thomas 's was 40 
Senate Judiciary Committee hearings on the Thomas nomination are expected to be held in September 
If they go smoothly , Justice Thomas could be sworn in before the new Supreme Court term begins on Oct. 7 
