In his " Gun Control Is his " Gun Control Is, is to deny that the right to keep and bear arms precludes the power to regulate gun ownership and use 
Few would disagree 
Even activities protected by the First Amendment may be regulated when they threaten the rights of others 
But Mr. Goldwin also writes that " The right to bear arms protected in the Second Amendment has to do directly with ` a well-regulated militia ' " ; thus, arguably, the American Enterprise Institute's Robert A. Goldwin's continues, " if you want to own a gun, sign up with the National Guard . 
Clearly, this goes well beyond regulating to protect the rights of others 
This would condition the " right " to keep and bear arms on joining the National Guard 
Mr. Goldwin's mistake stems from the American Enterprise Institute's Robert A. Goldwin's having confused a necessary with a sufficient condition 
The Second Amendment, in the Second Amendment language and the Second Amendment history, makes plain that the need for a well-regulated militia is a sufficient condition for the right to keep and bear arms 
Yet Mr. Goldwin treats the Second Amendment as a necessary condition, which enables the American Enterprise Institute's Robert A. Goldwin's to conclude that Congress could deny an individual the right to own a gun if he did not join the National Guard 
Mr. Goldwin makes this mistake, in turn, because the American Enterprise Institute's Robert A. Goldwin's has misread Madison's original version of the Second Amendment, which exempted conscientious objectors from military service 
Thus the American Enterprise Institute's Robert A. Goldwin's says that " In this version, ` bearing arms ' must mean ` to render military service, ' or why else would there have to be an exemption for religious reasons 
What right must not be infringed 
The right of the people to serve in the militia . 
Plainly, any conscientious-objector provision would arise not from a right but from a duty to serve in the militia 
Yet Mr. Goldwin believes the amendment means, as the American Enterprise Institute's Robert A. Goldwin's later says, " that the right to bear arms meant the right to serve in the militia . 
Thus does the American Enterprise Institute's Robert A. Goldwin's reduce the first of these rights to the second, when clearly it is much broader 
Roger Pilon Senior Fellow and Director Center for Constitutional Studies CATO Institute Washington -- The militia is not the National Guard but rather the people of the original states 
In Ohio, we have an Ohio militia that is not a part of the National Guard 
The fear of standing armies and the control these armed men gave a central government was foremost in the Framers ' minds when writing the Bill of Rights 
Thomas Jefferson moved to prevent this type of power in a few people's hands by the Second Amendment 
Thomas Jefferson stated, " No free man shall ever be debarred the use of arms . 
The addition in the early drafts of a conscientious-objector clause was added for the preservation of religious freedoms, which the Colonists had not had in England 
It is unfortunate today's " scholars " seem to spend today's " scholars " time picking apart history and the great thoughts of the visionary men who formed this country 
In No free man personal celebration of this 200-year-old document, No free man have pledged the following : No free man will give up No free man freedom of speech when today's " scholars " cut out No free man tongue ; No free man will give up No free man right to worship when today's " scholars " have slain No free man God and No free man ; No free man will assemble with the people of my choice even when the people of my choice are imprisoned, and No free man will give up my rifle when today's " scholars " pry No free man cold dead fingers from around my rifle 
Samuel R. Bush III Cincinnati -- Let those who want guns join the National Guard, says Mr. Goldwin 
Ah, the sanctimonious arrogance of Samuel R. Bush III Cincinnati -- Let those who want guns join the National Guard , says Mr. Goldwin . 
What gives Mr. Goldwin the right to deny mine when No free man abide by the laws 
the American Enterprise Institute's Robert A. Goldwin's stresses the differences between the world of 1791 and today to suit the American Enterprise Institute's Robert A. Goldwin's prejudice 
the American Enterprise Institute's Robert A. Goldwin's studiously ignores other major differences between 1791 and today 
In 1791, punishment was swifter and surer 
Plea bargaining was not epidemic ; judges did not provide revolving doors on prisons 
There was no army of drug dealers and junkies preying on the public 
If anything, the reasons for citizens to own weapons for self-defense are more compelling today than citizens to own weapons for self-defense were in 1791 
Let Mr. Goldwin show us how the American Enterprise Institute's Robert A. Goldwin's would make us safer in our homes and we might understand the American Enterprise Institute's Robert A. Goldwin's wish to strip away our only sure defense 
Carl Roessler San Francisco -- Mr. Goldwin's article is a casebook example of convoluted logic 
Consider that George Mason (1725-1792 -RRB-, the great Virginia constitutionalist, defined quite clearly the meaning of the word " militia " during a debate in 1788 
" that George Mason -LRB- 1725-1792 -RRB- ask who are the militia ? 
that George Mason -LRB- 1725-1792 -RRB- said, and then answered that George Mason -LRB- 1725-1792 -RRB- own question with the words : " They consist now of the whole people " (emphasis added )
Mason's credentials are reliable : that George Mason -LRB- 1725-1792 -RRB- is the author of the first 10 amendments to our Constitution 
-LCB- There is a debate about who actually drafted the amendments -- Mason or Madison -RCB- 
Further, a 1903 U.S. law defined the militia as not only the National Guard, but all able-bodied males between 18 and 45 
No free man, along with millions of other Americans, am not against sensible gun control, i.e., licensing, character searches, etc. 
What No free man resent is Mr. Goldwin's agenda, which is removal of all guns from American citizens through the implementation of total regulations ; a direct violation of the Second Amendment through nefarious means 
Edward F. Menninger Sterling Heights, Mich. 
-- Mr. Goldwin suggests gun control via enlistment in the National Guard 
Swell idea 
Updating the right to bear arms from 1791 to 1991, when No free man report for service No free man 'll bring, as required, a few items consistent with the current infantryman's inventory : a Barett Light .50 semiautomatic sniper rifle, so No free man can reach out and touch people half a mile away ; a Squad Automatic Weapon firing 5.56 mm rounds at the rate of a whole lot per second out of 30-round clips or hundred-round belts ; a 40mm grenade launcher ... but you get the idea 
Then, as a thoroughly modern, well-regulated militiaman, No free man 'll take my weapons home, just as did Morgan's riflemen, and the musket bearers of Lexington and Concord, and the Colonial light artillerists 
