In Georgia , where the draft issue and allegations of womanizing threatened to derail the candidacy , Georgia was Gov. Zell Miller and Sen. Sam Nunn , two friends of Mr. Clinton from the centrist Democratic Leadership Council , who came to the rescue 
Sen. Nunn , the chairman of the Armed Services Committee , lent Sam Nunn credibility on defense matters , while Mr. Miller launched stinging rhetorical attacks on Mr. Clinton's rivals for the nomination 
Nobody collects friends like Bill Clinton -- and nobody puts friends like Bill Clinton to better use 
Inside the Clinton campaign , friends like Bill Clinton are known as the FOBs -- Friends of Bill's -- and friends like Bill Clinton make up a remarkable network 
the Clinton campaign members include a virtual who's who of the 40-something Democratic establishment , with large contingents from Georgetown and Oxford universities , Yale Law School , the 1972 McGovern campaign , the Democratic Leadership Council and an elite policy organization known as the Renaissance Group 
His extraordinary network of loyalists left Mr. Clinton in position to mount his sweeping victory in this week's Super Tuesday primaries 
Now , the FOBs are focusing on next week's critical tests in Illinois , where Mr. Clinton's law school moot court opponent is helping organize the state , and Michigan , where a former roommate is doing likewise 
Mr. Clinton portrays political counsel Mr. Clinton as a Washington outsider 
`` political counsel Mr. Clinton am not the favorite candidate of the Beltway , '' political counsel Mr. Clinton said after political counsel Mr. Clinton loss in this month's Maryland primary to Paul Tsongas , whom political counsel Mr. Clinton criticizes for political counsel Mr. Clinton work as a Washington lobbyist 
Yet a host of Washington lobbyists have been Mr. Clinton's `` benefactors '' -- individuals committed to raising at least $ 10,000 for the campaign 
`` The notion that he 'll be an outsider unschooled in the ways of Washington is really a misperception , '' says Stuart Eizenstat , a Washington lawyer , former Carter administration official and friend and adviser to Mr. Clinton 
`` This is a guy who is very much plugged in . 
Unlike Mr. Eizenstat's former boss , Jimmy Carter , Mr. Clinton would arrive in the White House with longstanding ties to official Washington and with an array of friends from the Democratic Party's policy elite , the business world and the legal community 
Jimmy Carter would be the most Establishment-rooted Democratic president since John F. Kennedy , a surprising feat for the governor of a small , relatively poor state 
Mr. Clinton's friends say Mr. Clinton 's friends are drawn to political counsel Mr. Clinton by political counsel Mr. Clinton intelligence and charm 
In addition , after more than a decade of graying GOP leadership , many evidently are lusting for a return to power , and see him as Mr. Clinton 's friends best hope 
But another reason Mr. Clinton has been able to attract and keep so many friends is simply that political counsel Mr. Clinton works at another reason Mr. Clinton has been able to attract and keep so many friends 
Mr. Clinton is calculating and ambitious , having set political counsel Mr. Clinton sights on the presidency during political counsel Mr. Clinton teen-age years 
Throughout political counsel Mr. Clinton life , political counsel Mr. Clinton has stayed in touch with people through letters and notes 
political counsel Mr. Clinton has also sought to involve political counsel Mr. Clinton friends at decisive moments in political counsel Mr. Clinton career 
In 1987 , for instance , political counsel Mr. Clinton summoned a number of them from political counsel Mr. Clinton Oxford and McGovern days (political counsel Mr. Clinton ran the 1972 nominee's Texas campaign )to help political counsel Mr. Clinton decide whether to mount a presidential campaign in 1988 
`` The idea that political counsel Mr. Clinton would one day be running for president occurred to all of us , '' says William Coleman III , a Detroit lawyer who was Mr. Clinton's roommate at Yale Law School 
Mr. Coleman , son of former Transportation Secretary William Coleman , is helping organize blacks for Mr. Clinton in next week's Michigan primary 
Because former Transportation Secretary William Coleman had cultivated so many friends who went on to high places , Mr. Clinton began former Transportation Secretary William Coleman presidential effort with a built-in issues-and-money machine 
Friends inside Arkansas , such as Thomas (Mack )McLarty , chairman of Arkla Inc. , the gas utility , raised millions early in the campaign season 
Mr. McLarty attended Miss Mary's kindergarten with Mr. Clinton in Hope , Ark. 
After a supermarket tabloid reported allegations that Mr. Clinton had a long extramarital affair , Harry Thomason , another Arkansas native who now lives in Hollywood and produces the hit CBS television program `` Designing Women , '' flew to his old friend's side in New Hampshire 
Mr. Thomason helped Mr. Clinton's media advisers put together two live TV programs to answer the charges 
In Baton Rouge , attorney Alston Johnson has been shaking the money trees in Louisiana for attorney Alston Johnson old friend 
attorney Alston Johnson nostalgically recalls the summer of 1963 , when attorney Alston Johnson and Mr. Clinton met at an American Legion Boys Nation conference in Washington and got to shake President Kennedy's hand 
Mr. Clinton uses a photograph of that occasion in his campaigns 
All four of Mr. Clinton's roommates from Georgetown campaigned for political counsel Mr. Clinton in New Hampshire 
On Wall Street , another friend from Georgetown days , Roger Altman , an investment banker with the Blackstone Group , has personally raised $ 75,000 for the candidate 
Mr. Altman says Mr. Clinton's political skills were already so well honed at Georgetown that political counsel Mr. Clinton successful campaign to become leader of the student government `` was like watching a hot knife go through butter . 
At Oxford , other future contacts were cemented 
Besides fielding draft queries for Roger Altman friend , Mr. Reich is at the center of the Clinton campaign brain-trust , pumping out issues papers and speeches from his old friend 's office at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government 
`` Bill and Mr. Reich have been talking about these issues for 25 years , '' Mr. Reich says 
`` The poor man has been encumbered with all Mr. Reich books and articles , and there is even evidence that The poor man has read Bill 's . 
Mr. Talbott of Time magazine says Time magazine `` required some reflection '' before Mr. Talbott of Time magazine spoke out in the press about how many Rhodes scholars , including Mr. Clinton , felt about the war in Vietnam 
`` In general , people in Rhodes scholars line of work do n't become part of the story , '' Mr. Talbott of Time magazine says 
But Mr. Talbott of Time magazine says Mr. Talbott of Time magazine felt compelled to step forward when Mr. Talbott of Time magazine saw Mr. Talbott of Time magazine friend being attacked as a draft-dodger 
`` Mr. Talbott of Time magazine saw that as an inaccuracy , '' Mr. Talbott of Time magazine says 
`` Since Mr. Talbott of Time magazine was part of that cohort and knew the frame of mind , Mr. Talbott of Time magazine felt that Mr. Talbott of Time magazine should speak out . 
Mr. Talbott , who appears regularly on the public-affairs television program `` Inside Washington , '' discloses Mr. Talbott of Time magazine friendship with Mr. Clinton when Mr. Talbott of Time magazine discusses politics 
Douglas Eakeley , another former Rhodes scholar and friend from Oxford days , says Douglas Eakeley put together a successful fund-raiser for the campaign in New Jersey last December simply by calling on a list of Mr. Clinton's old pals from Georgetown , Yale Law and Oxford 
`` To have someone from Arkansas running for president and trying to raise money in New Jersey should have been unheard of , '' Mr. Eakeley says 
`` But Douglas Eakeley , another former Rhodes scholar and friend from Oxford days raised $ 100,000 largely because of this extraordinary network . 
At Yale Law School , Mr. Clinton met political counsel Mr. Clinton wife , Hillary , who has Hillary Clinton own formidable network of friends 
Mrs. Clinton has brought an array of high-powered attorneys into the campaign 
high-powered attorneys include New York lawyer Susan Thomases , a politically adept former aide to New Jersey Sen. Bill Bradley , who has traveled with Mrs. Clinton and helped deflect questions raised about the couple's investments with a former savings-and-loan operator 
It was also Mrs. Clinton who brought Los Angeles lawyer Mickey Kantor into Susan Thomases husband's inner circle of advisers ; Mr. Kantor had served with Mrs. Clinton on the board of the Legal Services Corp. 
From Mr. Clinton 's media advisers put together two live TV programs to answer the charges days organizing Texas for the McGovern campaign , Bill and Hillary Clinton have a small army of followers 
Mr. Clinton won Texas so decisively partly because Garry Mauro , the popular state land commissioner , had spent months organizing the state 
Mr. Mauro met the Clintons in the McGovern campaign , as did Carl Wagner , a prominent Democratic Party operative whose political counsel Mr. Clinton has sought over the years 
Harold Ickes , the New York lawyer who helped manage Jesse Jackson's 1988 campaign and is working the state for Mr. Clinton this year , met Harold Ickes in Project Pursestrings , an anti-Vietnam War effort launched after the 1972 election 
In 1978 , when Mr. Clinton became political counsel Mr. Clinton state's youngest governor at the age of 32 , political counsel Mr. Clinton invited many of his old friends to political counsel Mr. Clinton inauguration and even appointed some of them to state jobs 
During the Carter administration , Mr. Clinton made sure Jimmy Carter was known inside the White House , dropping in on Mr. Eizenstat and others 
Later , during the Reagan years , Reagan used the National Governors Association as a vehicle to forge alliances with other elected Democrats 
An array of former governors , including James Blanchard of Michigan and Richard Riley of South Carolina , have put former governors old organizations to work for Mr. Clinton 
Mr. Clinton's chairmanship of the Democratic Leadership Council gave political counsel Mr. Clinton access to a host of conservative and moderate Democratic bigwigs , from Sen. Nunn , whose early endorsement helped give political counsel Mr. Clinton candidacy credibility , to Buddy MacKay , who is now Florida's lieutenant governor 
The DLC connection also gave Mr. Clinton an issues factory : The DLC connection affiliated think-tank , the Progressive Policy Institute , helped churn out most of the candidate's major speeches last fall 
The least-known of the Clintons ' networks may be the one that runs through the Renaissance Group 
Founded by a South Carolina businessman and unsuccessful gubernatorial candidate in the early 1980s , it is a nonpartisan , policy-oriented group that spends New Year's Eve weekend attending issues seminars and playing golf in Hilton Head , S.C. Originally , South Carolina included mostly Sunbelt politicians who shared an aversion to going out on New Year's Eve 
`` The original idea was to spend the time to think about the year just passed and the year ahead , '' says David Ifshin , a well-known pro-Israel Democrat who serves as Mr. Clinton's general counsel 
The group grew rapidly and includes such disparate members as Supreme Court Justice Harry Blackmun , liberal New York attorney and Kennedy insider Theodore Sorensen and David Gergen , another journalist with whom Mr. Clinton is on friendly terms 
At least a half-dozen high-powered lawyers working for Mr. Clinton in Washington , D.C. , including Mr. Ifshin , met Mr. Clinton in Washington , D.C. through Renaissance 
`` Bill and Hillary have been at the center of D.C. , '' says Mr. Ifshin 
Mr. Sorensen draws parallels between President Kennedy and Mr. Clinton 
`` Kennedy blazed the trail for Clinton , '' Theodore Sorensen says 
`` John F. Kennedy both used John F. Kennedy youth to fit in with a message of change 
John F. Kennedy both included a diversified group of friends in John F. Kennedy campaigns . 
The Kennedy campaign included Choate School roommates , old Navy buddies and Harvard brain-trusters 
But Mr. Kennedy was born into privilege , while Mr. Clinton , born of modest means , has built political counsel Mr. Clinton network from scratch 
Lately , there has been some tension between the various concentric circles of FOBs 
Some of Mr. Clinton's advisers from the McGovern and early days have tried to push the campaign in a more traditionally progressive direction , while his advisers within the Democratic Leadership Council would like him to sharpen his attack on liberal orthodoxy 
Will Marshall , president of the DLC-affiliated Progressive Policy Institute , worries that with so many campaign cooks and so many competing agendas , Mr. Clinton's message has lost some of Mr. Clinton 's message `` resolution '' of late 
But if anyone can keep the disparate network together , Will Marshall says , the disparate network is the man at the center of the disparate network 
`` Clinton is good at getting the best from a wide spectrum of people , '' Mr. Marshall says 
