WORKING parents ' child-care arrangements continue to break down at a surprising rate , despite growing public and private investment in the nation 's child-care system . 
Although most parents strive for continuity , studies show that about one-half of employed mothers who pay for child care change their arrangements each year , says Arthur C. Emlen , a professor emeritus at Portland State University in Oregon and a consultant on dependent-care issues . 
The reasons cited most often : a care giver quit , the cost was too high , the hours were wrong , the location was inconvenient , a child was unhappy or a parent disliked the care giver . 
The problem is costly for employers . 
Preliminary data from a survey of 2,300 employed mothers , set for release next month , show that 15 % reported some time lost from work in the past month because child care had broken down . 
The Child Care Action Campaign , an advocacy group , puts the annual cost to U.S. business at $ 3 billion . 
`` Mr. Emlen do n't see much evidence that turnover has gotten better '' in recent years , says Mr. Emlen , who has studied dependent care since 1965 . 
The supply of relatives who help out has dwindled as more women have taken other jobs . 
Also , `` people 's standards are going up , '' Mr. Emlen says . 
Meg Mahoney , a Minneapolis-area mother , missed two days as a retail buyer after her sitter gave her sitter less than a day 's notice that her sitter was quitting to take a manufacturing job . 
When an Eden Prairie , Minn. , preschool filed for protection from creditors , Thomas J. Schmid , a professor at Mankato State University , lost a lot of work time and finally had to transfer Thomas J. Schmid two-year-old to a more distant school . 
Suzanne Shelton-Foley has had seven child-care arrangements for Suzanne Shelton-Foley five-year-old twins . 
Suzanne Shelton-Foley recently started a public relations and marketing firm in Chicago to gain flexibility . 
`` Chicago 's gotten to the point where Suzanne Shelton-Foley 'm no longer surprised when someone says , ` Suzanne Shelton-Foley 'm sorry this report is a week late , but Suzanne Shelton-Foley sitter quit , ' '' Suzanne Shelton-Foley says . 
FOR A LONG TIME , Jim McCormick did n't know his eight-year-old son was having trouble reading at school . 
The child might still be struggling , except for an unusual program sponsored by Mr. McCormick 's employer , Ridgeview Inc. , and school officials in Newton , N.C. Every two months , seven school counselors visit the maker of hosiery and socks for 15-minute conferences with 57 parents who work there . 
After Mr. McCormick , a supervisor , met with Jim McCormick son 's counselor , Jim McCormick started working with the child at home , and the boy overcame the boy problem . 
The three-year-old program has cut truancy to zero among children of participants , says Susan McGee , a guidance counselor , who helped invent The three-year-old program . 
The program draws 100 % participation by more than 100 parents at two participating employers . 
Before the program started , workers had to take a pay cut for time lost attending school conferences . 
Counselors are seeing parents who have n't set foot in a school since seven school counselors graduated or dropped out . 
Participation by fathers has also soared -- a benefit of `` meeting parents on meeting parents own turf , '' Ms. McGee says . 
`` And Participation by fathers costs fathers nothing but fathers time . '' 
AS BABY BOOMERS age , the average worker may soon have more older relatives than children to care for . 
Most employers think of child care as the most common area of conflict between work and family , and child care tends to be the family issue raised most often by employees and political groups . 
But over the next three decades , the number of dependent elders -- primarily aging relatives or in-laws who need intermittent or constant caremay actually surpass the number of dependent children in the U.S. , Census Bureau statistics show . 
That seems certain to shift public pressure toward more elder-care help , such as adult day care or broader tax breaks for elder care expenses . 
Much depends on such uncertainties as the future rate at which people have babies and die and the number of immigrants who settle in the U.S. , says Mercedes Bern-Klug , an analyst for the National Institute on Aging . 
Also , there is no way of telling how many people in a certain age group will be dependent . 
Nevertheless , by the year 2020 , Americans under the age of 18 are expected to drop to 19 % to 24 % of the population from 26 % currently , Census Bureau projections show . 
At the same time , people over 65 will rise to 20 % of the population , compared with 13 % now . 
By the year 2040 , an estimated 17 % to 24 % will be under 18 , with 26 % to 28 % over 65 . 
The trend is already in place . 
A recent International Business Machines survey showed the proportion of A recent International Business Machines survey employees with elder dependents doubled between 1986 and 1991 , to 16 % from 8 % . 
FLEXIBLE WORK schedules are paying unexpected dividends for Wells Fargo . 
At no cost to the company , no cost to the company corporate library is now open more than seven hours longer each week because employees have juggled employees workloads and hours to meet family and other personal needs . 
Some workers start later and stay later , while others work longer days in exchange for time off on other days ... . 
For the 13 million American children who move each year , Kidvidz , Newton , Mass. , offers an award-winning video , `` Let 's Get a Move On . '' 
Four children give tips on dealing with the loneliness , anger and feelings of powerlessness that a move can raise . 
