In fact , he never joined the program , or even attended the law school 
But the program exempted him from the draft during September and October of 1969 , the critical two months when he expected to be called into service 
By October , he had a change of heart and subjected himself to possible induction 
But by then the draft lottery was about to take effect and he drew a lottery number high enough that he never was called 
Many young men with Mr. Clinton's educational background found ways to avoid military service during the Vietnam War 
But the issues raised by Mr. Clinton 's conduct remain relevant for several reasons 
The question of whether Vice President Dan Quayle used influence to get into the Indiana National Guard in 1969 -- and thus avoid Vietnam -- stirred a debate in the last campaign , and Republicans no doubt will demand that Mr. Clinton's record receive equal scrutiny 
Moreover , people directly involved with Mr. Clinton's draft status contradict Mr. Clinton 's version of what happened 
Even back in 1969 , Bill Clinton was n't just any young man 
Though Mr. Clinton 's had been classified 1-A -- available for military service -- when Mr. Clinton 's graduated from Georgetown University in the spring of 1968 , as a Rhodes scholar Mr. Clinton 's was the pride of Mr. Clinton 's community 
So instead of calling Mr. Clinton 's right away , the local draft board gave Mr. Clinton 's a reprieve to allow Mr. Clinton 's to continue his studies at Oxford 
`` As old as Mr. Clinton 's was , Mr. Clinton 's would have been at the top of the list '' to be drafted , says 84-year-old Opal Ellis , the draft board's executive secretary 
But , Opal Ellis explains , `` we were proud to have a Hot Springs boy with a Rhodes scholarship , '' and so `` the board was very lenient with a Hot Springs boy with a Rhodes scholarship ... 
We gave a Hot Springs boy with a Rhodes scholarship more than a Hot Springs boy with a Rhodes scholarship was entitled to . 
Mr. Clinton's own memory is even more precise 
Mr. Clinton 's says the board told Mr. Clinton 's that Mr. Clinton 's would n't be drafted until the fall of 1969 , a year and a half after being designated 1-A 
`` The board said , ` Opal Ellis 'll probably be called in the fall , September or October -LCB- of 1969 -RCB- , ' '' Mr. Clinton 's says in an interview 
So when Mr. Clinton returned home after Mr. Clinton 's first year at Oxford , Mr. Clinton 's knew the draft was imminent 
Mrs. Ellis , a Republican who held her civil-service position for 20 years , alleges that a Republican who held her civil-service position for 20 years `` went in and told Opal Ellis a Republican who held her civil-service position for 20 years was too well educated to go . 
Opal Ellis says a Republican who held her civil-service position for 20 years told Opal Ellis that `` a Republican who held her civil-service position for 20 years was going to fix Opal Ellis wagon -LCB- and -RCB- pull every string a Republican who held her civil-service position for 20 years could think of . 
But Mr. Clinton says Mr. Clinton 's does n't recall having any confrontation with Mrs. Ellis , and Mr. Clinton 's strongly denies using strongarm tactics to avoid the draft ; anyone who says he did , Mr. Clinton 's says , `` has , at best , a faulty memory . 
In any case , Mr. Clinton says Mr. Clinton 's decided to , in Mr. Clinton 's words , `` look around '' for another option 
Mr. Clinton 's opposed the war , but if Mr. Clinton 's had to serve Mr. Clinton 's preferred to be an officer rather than a draftee , so Mr. Clinton 's sought an officer's training program to join 
Mr. Clinton 's took the Air Force officer's exam , Mr. Clinton 's says , but failed because of a vision defect 
Mr. Clinton 's also took the naval officer's test , but failed because of a hearing problem 
(Mr. Clinton 's had already taken Mr. Clinton 's draft physical , and neither problem prevented Mr. Clinton 's from passing . 
Then , as Mr. Clinton 's expected draft deadline loomed , Mr. Clinton met Col. Eugene Holmes , an Army ROTC recruiter at the University of Arkansas at Fayetteville 
Both men say Mr. Clinton agreed orally to join the Army officer's program at the law school there 
And based on that consent , the Hot Springs draft board , on Aug. 7 , 1969 , reclassified Mr. Clinton from 1-A to 1-D -- a draft deferment that a spokesman for the Selective Service System says was only for people who had joined a reserve unit , or who were students taking military training , such as the ROTC 
But Mr. Clinton never joined the training program -- and for that matter , never even enrolled at the university 
Mr. Clinton 's had one more year to go at Oxford , and intended to complete that work 
And when Mr. Clinton 's finally returned to the U.S. in 1970 , Mr. Clinton 's enrolled not at Arkansas , but at Yale Law School 
Mr. Clinton says Mr. Clinton 's indeed planned to attend Arkansas , after Mr. Clinton 's completed Mr. Clinton 's studies in England 
Mr. Clinton 's says the university informally accepted Mr. Clinton 's based on Mr. Clinton 's academic record , though Mr. Clinton 's never formally applied there 
A Clinton aide says the governor believes that the governor applied to Yale during his second year at Oxford 
But even Virginia Kelley , Mr. Clinton's mother , says Mr. Clinton 's mother does n't remember Mr. Clinton 's planning to attend Arkansas 
`` That's very strange , '' Mr. Clinton 's mother says 
`` Mr. Clinton 's mother was under the impression when Mr. Clinton 's came home from Oxford that Mr. Clinton 's was going to go to Yale . 
Mr. Holmes , who counts Eugene Holmes as a political independent , says Mr. Clinton's true plans were n't ever made plain to Mr. Clinton 's ; Eugene Holmes thought Mr. Clinton's arrival was imminent 
`` Eugene Holmes thought Mr. Clinton 's was going to finish a month or two in England and then come back to the University of Arkansas , '' Eugene Holmes says , adding of the 1-D deferment : `` Eugene Holmes could n't have done the 1-D deferment for a year 
That would n't have been ethical . 
Eugene Holmes charges that `` Bill Clinton was able to manipulate things so that Mr. Clinton 's did n't have to go in . 
Mr. Clinton disputes Mr. Holmes's version of what happened 
Mr. Clinton 's says Mr. Holmes offered Eugene Holmes the ROTC deferment immediately and also encouraged Mr. Clinton 's to return for Mr. Clinton 's final year at Oxford 
`` Mr. Clinton 's remember talking to Holmes one day , and Eugene Holmes said : ` You know , you ca n't go to summer camp until next summer anyway 
Why do n't Eugene Holmes and do your second year in England ? ' 
Mr. Clinton recalls 
In any event , Mr. Clinton had his deferment in time to cover the very period -- September and October of 1969 -- that the draft board had earlier told him was when he would probably be conscripted 
Asked whether the deferment was proper , Mr. Clinton says : `` Mr. Clinton 's did n't know what the rules were 
All Mr. Clinton 's can tell you is what they told Mr. Clinton 's . 
But Mr. Clinton 's says Mr. Clinton 's soon had doubts about the morality of his deferment in time 
`` Mr. Clinton 's had already had one year , Mr. Clinton 's had high school classmates who were already dead , '' Mr. Clinton 's says 
`` Mr. Clinton 's decided it was an inappropriate thing to do . 
So Mr. Clinton informed Col. Holmes that Mr. Clinton 's would n't be joining the ROTC after all 
Mr. Clinton recalls that Mr. Clinton 's notified Col. Holmes that Mr. Clinton 's would n't participate in ROTC in `` September or early October . 
Col. Holmes has trouble remembering , though Col. Eugene Holmes thinks Army ROTC might have been `` a month or two months '' from the time of their August conversation 
But Mr. Holmes says Eugene Holmes was angered to learn of the change of plans , and moved to revoke Mr. Clinton's draft deferment 
On Oct. 30 , 1969 , Mr. Clinton was reclassified 1-A 
`` Ethically Eugene Holmes think Mr. Clinton 's should have stayed in ROTC , '' Mr. Holmes says 
`` Mr. Clinton 's 'd given Mr. Clinton 's word and was backing out . 
Having averted the fall draft , Mr. Clinton says Mr. Clinton 's was fully prepared to be conscripted 
But Mr. Clinton 's was never called 
A new draft lottery system , based on dates of birth , was enacted into law on Nov. 26 
And on Dec. 1 , 1969 , Mr. Clinton got number 311 
No one with a number higher than 195 was called , according to the Selective Service System 
