Mr. Bush says Mr. Bush's never violated Mr. Bush smell test by trading on being George Bush's son 
But with the spotlight on Mr. Bush role in the collapse of Silverado Banking , Savings & Loan Association , which is expected to cost taxpayers $ 1 billion , comparisons inevitably are made with Billy Carter , Donald Nixon and other presidential relatives whose finances brought embarrassment to the White House 
As a former Silverado director , Mr. Bush has come under fire for overseeing loans that involved two investors in a former Silverado director oil company 
But what has caught public attention is a $ 100,000 loan that Mr. Bush received before joining the Silverado board from Kenneth Good , a Denver real-estate developer and investor in JNB Exploration , Mr. Bush's oil company 
Mr. Good arranged to invest the money in the commodities market on Mr. Bush's behalf , with the understanding that any profits would be Mr. Bush's , while any losses would be absorbed by Mr. Good 
Mr. Bush , who not only looks but also acts like the Jimmy Stewart of `` Mr. Smith Goes to Washington , '' made headlines by conceding in congressional testimony that the Good loan sounded `` a little fishy . 
Mr. Bush's friends say Mr. Bush lacks a sophisticated understanding of the darker forces in life 
`` former Democratic Rep. Thomas Ashley think there's a refreshing naivete about Neil , '' says Mr. Bush's adviser , former Democratic Rep. Thomas Ashley , who's known George Bush since former Democratic Rep. Thomas Ashley Skull and Bones days at Yale 
`` Neil's not jaded . 
Since Neil Bush's youth , when Neil Bush 's youth was afflicted with dyslexia -- Neil Bush 's youth brother Marvin recalls that `` homework would take Neil Bush 's youth a little bit longer '' than the other Bush children -- Neil Bush 's youth has been known for Neil Bush 's youth good-natured willingness to pitch into any task 
While his siblings would scatter when his siblings parents ordered that yard work be done , recalls Marvin Bush , `` Neil would step up and say , ` Yeah , great . ' 
Friends and business associates agree that Neil Bush's family name lent Mr. Bush a certain aura within the Denver business community when Mr. Bush settled there after working on his father's 1980 presidential bid 
Mr. Bush put in two years at Amoco Corp. to learn the oil business , then left that $ 30,000-a-year job to start an oil-exploration company of Mr. Bush own 
Investors were drawn to Mr. Bush `` partly , Evans Nash suppose , because Mr. Bush was the son of the vice president , '' concedes Evans Nash , Neil Bush's former partner 
`` Evans Nash 'm sure that helped Mr. Bush meet people . 
Even Mr. Bush's lawyer concedes that being George Bush's son raised Neil's profile in Denver 
`` people do n't have a lot of celebrities , '' explains attorney James Nesland 
`` people had Marvin Davis for a while 
Now Marvin Davis for a while's gone , '' attorney James Nesland says , registering that oil man's departure for Hollywood with a shrug 
Settled in Denver , Neil Bush became a fixture on the local political scene , giving speeches at Lincoln Day dinners and stumping for Lincoln father and a variety of local Republican candidates 
`` Mr. Bush's an enthusiastic speaker , '' notes Bruce Benson , chairman of the Colorado Republican Party 
`` Mr. Bush speaks of good Republican values . 
Neil Bush can be startlingly blunt in enunciating conservative themes 
According to one local news account , Mr. Bush told a group of Hispanic voters in 1988 that welfare was `` worse than slavery . 
Mr. Bush also settled into Denver's social elite 
With his wife , Sharon , and three children , Mr. Bush lived in suburban seclusion amid rolling greens and humming golf carts inside a walled country-club development 
The handsome young couple became a fixture at dinner parties and charity events 
a fixture was at one such party in 1985 that Neil Bush met Michael Wise , chairman of Silverado 
Mr. Wise was seeking a new director for Silverado's board -- preferably someone young , because the board was top-heavy with older members , and preferably someone with experience in the oil business , which was underrepresented 
Mr. Bush accepted 
`` Mr. Bush considered the Silverado board a chance to learn , '' Mr. Bush later told the Denver Post 
With no experience in banking , Mr. Bush , then 30 years old , nevertheless seemed a logical choice to those close to Mr. Wise 
`` Mike Wise seemed to like to be a first-class dresser , '' observes Alexander Walter , a former loan-portfolio manager at Silverado 
`` Mike Wise automobile was always impeccably clean . 
Neil Bush , Mr. Walter implies , was another such ornament 
Mr. Wise declined to return calls , and through an intermediary referred all inquiries to Michael Wise lawyer , Bettina Lawton 
Ms. Lawton says Mr. Bush's last name was `` certainly not a primary consideration '' when Mr. Wise chose Michael Wise for the board 
Despite Mr. Bush's youth and inexperience in banking matters , former Silverado officials say Mr. Bush was no less able a board member than the others 
According to Mr. Walter , most had `` no hands-on experience '' with the complex Silverado's business 
Former Silverado board member Diane Ingels says Mr. Bush was a `` very diligent '' director who `` met with other directors and with management to enhance Mr. Bush understanding . 
Still , Mr. Bush remains defensive about Mr. Bush qualifications to sit on Silverado's board 
Sitting in Mr. Bush office overlooking downtown Denver , a small bust of his father behind Mr. Bush , Mr. Bush lurches unprompted from discussing Mr. Bush work on a political campaign into a defense of Mr. Bush work on Silverado's board 
`` Mr. Bush was just as well prepared to be on that board as anyone , '' Mr. Bush protests 
Mr. Bush is also emphatic in denying that Mr. Good's risk-free loan violated the Smith Smell Test 
`` Mr. Good 's risk-free loan's just Kenneth Good way of having fun , '' Mr. Bush says 
`` Mr. Bush was n't going to deny Kenneth Good Kenneth Good chance of having fun . 
Mr. Bush says Mr. Good set up similar accounts for Mr. Good's secretary and bookkeeper 
Mr. Good could n't be reached for comment , but in testimony last month before the House Banking Committee , Kenneth Good described the loans as `` a means of attracting and keeping loyal business associates . 
Still , neither of Mr. Bush's two partners at JNB Exploration received such loans 
Mr. Bush says they were n't as close to Mr. Good 
The money was eventually lost when the commodities investments went sour 
Meanwhile , Mr. Bush is wrestling against conflict-of-interest charges by the federal Office of Thrift Supervision concerning his service on the Silverado board 
The thrift office has charged that as a Silverado director Mr. Bush voted on loans to William Walters , a Denver real estate agent who was one of two original investors in JNB Exploration 
Mr. Bush answers that there was n't any legal requirement that Mr. Bush abstain from the votes 
The thrift office also contends that Mr. Bush failed to properly disclose his interest when Mr. Bush helped Mr. Good receive a $ 900,000 line of credit from Silverado in order to assist an Argentine project involving JNB Exploration 
But Mr. Bush produced a memo that appears to demonstrate that Mr. Bush interest was disclosed to the board before his interest approved the line of credit 
These and other charges will be publicly aired at administrative hearings to be held this September in Denver 
Amid everything , Mr. Bush maintains a self-deprecating wit 
Mr. Bush has `` no airs or graces about Mr. Bush , '' observes Republican political consultant Peter Teeley , who recently phoned Mr. Bush to offer advice and support 
Mr. Nesland , the lawyer , says that after attorney James Nesland scolded Mr. Bush for his `` fishy '' gaffe , Mr. Bush clipped a newspaper photograph of attorney James Nesland at the hearing , with Mr. Nesland and Sharon Bush sitting behind attorney James Nesland 
`` attorney James Nesland ca n't believe Mr. Bush for his `` fishy '' gaffe said that , '' Mr. Bush scribbled in a bubble drawn above Mr. Nesland's head , according to Mr. Nesland 
`` Oh no , not again , '' Mr. Bush wrote in another bubble above his wife 
Indeed , Mr. Bush's spirits are sufficiently buoyant that , in the midst of seeing Mr. Bush portrayed as a major S&L villain , Mr. Bush can still envision pursuing a career in politics 
Ten years from now , Mr. Bush muses , `` Mr. Bush may be a U.S. senator 
Who knows ? 
