The takeover was `` the most chaotic , incredible situation I 've been involved in , '' said regulator Keith Seibold 
Mr. Seibold , a 20-year veteran of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. , has been in the first wave of regulators in many a bank seizure 
Testifying in Mr. Keating's court challenge to the takeover , Mr. Seibold said `` lots of documents -- loan and credit files -- were missing '' when an FDIC team swept through Lincoln's offices in Phoenix , Ariz. , April 14 , 1989 
Mr. Keating 's said that over the next several days , the FDIC managed to retrieve the documents from Lincoln officials -- in exchange for giving the officials some of the art that decorated Lincoln's offices 
Federal District Judge Stanley Sporkin seemed incredulous 
`` Keith Seibold do n't actually mean pictures on the wall ? 
Keith Seibold asked 
`` Yes , your honor , pictures on the wall , '' Mr. Seibold replied 
But during a break in the trial , Mr. Keating said the suggestion that there was any bartering to get documents back was `` ridiculous . 
Mr. Keating 's explained that Lincoln's files were spread among two buildings used by Lincoln and by American Continental Corp. , the parent company 
In sorting out what belonged where after the takeover , Lincoln's files were returned to Lincoln's building 
Meanwhile , Mr. Keating asked the regulators to return to Mr. Keating 's a painting , which hung in Lincoln's offices and was given to Lincoln 's by Lincoln 's nephew 
Mr. Keating also said that Lincoln was required to keep all original loan files at a painting headquarters in Irvine , Calif. 
Mr. Seibold would n't speak to reporters about Mr. Keating's version of the events 
A few blocks away on Capitol Hill , Rep. Henry Gonzalez , who made Mr. Keating something of a celebrity with his hearings on Lincoln last year , called for the Justice Department to freeze the assets of Mr. Keating and other `` highflyers who have defrauded savings and loans . 
Mr. Keating said Mr. Gonzalez was ignoring the `` truth '' of regulatory iniquity that was evident from the trial 
`` Rep. Henry Gonzalez , who made Mr. Keating something of a celebrity with his hearings on Lincoln last year , called for the Justice Department to freeze the assets of Mr. Keating prefers Rep. Henry Gonzalez , who made Mr. Keating something of a celebrity with his hearings on Lincoln last year , called for the Justice Department to freeze the assets of Mr. Keating kangaroo court , '' Mr. Keating said 
