It is now clear that the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton , like many of Gov. Clinton peers at that time , worked to obtain a draft deferment during the summer of that year , when Gov. Clinton felt certain Gov. Clinton was about to be called up for military service 
Gov. Clinton has said Gov. Clinton later dropped that deferment because he felt it was morally wrong to keep deferment because he felt it while Gov. Clinton friends died in combat 
But in a letter Gov. Clinton wrote at the time , Gov. Clinton said Gov. Clinton dropped the deferment to maintain his `` political viability . 
And it appears that Gov. Clinton did n't actually subject Gov. Clinton to the draft until it became clear that Gov. Clinton had a reasonable chance of escaping induction altogether 
Here's a closer look at the questions that are raised by his statements : Did Gov. Clinton ever intend to enroll in the Reserve Officer Training Corps program at the University of Arkansas , as he agreed to do at the time he received his deferment 
Mr. Clinton never enrolled in either the ROTC or the University of Arkansas , making dubious the circumstances under which the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton received the deferment at such a critical time 
What's more , in a letter to his ROTC recruiter , Mr. Clinton admitted , `` the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton had no interest in the ROTC program a letter to his ROTC recruiter '' and concedes that his ROTC recruiter may have `` deceived '' the recruiter about his ROTC recruiter attitude 
Mr. Clinton has said on several occasions recently that for a brief period in the summer of 1969 , the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton did intend to join the ROTC and the University of Arkansas , but only after finishing the second year of the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton Rhodes scholarship at Oxford University in England 
Col. Eugene Holmes , director of the ROTC program at the University of Arkansas , says the ROTC program at the University of Arkansas would have been improper for Eugene Holmes to grant a deferment for Mr. Clinton if Eugene Holmes had no intention of joining the ROTC program until a year later 
When Mr. Clinton backed out of the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton agreement to join the ROTC , was the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton intention to subject the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton to the draft 
That's what the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton has said in the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton statements and in the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton letter 
But Mr. Clinton did n't back out of the agreement until after a statement on Sept. 19 , 1969 , by President Nixon that made his ROTC agreement clear that few new conscripts would be called until December , when a draft lottery system was to begin 
Mr. Clinton has said the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton was unaware of any plans for a lottery system at the time the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton backed out of his ROTC agreement , but the president's comments were widely publicized 
On the surface , Mr. Clinton's ROTC deferment , which lasted 2 1/2 months , enabled the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton to escape almost certain induction and instead put the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton into a lottery system where the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton chances of being called were smaller 
Why did Mr. Clinton wait until Dec. 3 , 1969 , to write to Col. Holmes about the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton harsh views of the draft , the war and the ROTC 
The letter provides no answer to that question 
But it was written two days after the lottery numbers were announced 
Mr. Clinton drew an extremely high number , 311 , making it clear that the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton chances of ever being called into service were very small 
After that , the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton may have felt freer to confess the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton feelings 
