Shortly before 10:30 this morning California time , nature turned off the sun's light switch and total darkness over Hawaii signaled the beginning of the The Eclipse of the Millennium 
; Oh , [my God , (PRP$)| the The Eclipse (NNP)] exclaimed one spectator after another at a mountaintop observatory atop Mauna Kea as the sky went blank 
That is the best eclipse [I (PRP)| Don Hall , director of Hawaii's Institute for Astronomy. ; More than 40 million people saw the moon obscure so much of the sun that only a blazing ring was visible in the western Americas (NNP)] have ever seen 
That is truly spectacular , said Don Hall , director of Hawaii's Institute for Astronomy. ; More than 40 million people saw the moon obscure so much of the sun that only a blazing ring was visible in the western Americas 
Shadows stretched from west to east , as the eclipse turned morning into a night along a 160-mile-wide swath from Hawaii to Baja to Mexico City to Calamar , Colombia the only region where the eclipse made the Earth totally dark. ; In Hawaii , the volcano Mauna Loa stunned visiting astronomers by producing a dazzling show of steam and glowing lava at the height of the eclipse 
Local geologists , though , indicated the activity was probably routine. ; In the Bay Area , more than half the sun was covered when the eclipse peaked at 11:20 a.m. 
The world will not see such a long-lasting eclipse for another 151 years. ; Few people who saw [it (PRP)| The world (NN)] today will forget The Big One 
; [It (PRP)| The world (NN)] looks neat 
[It (PRP)| The world (NN)] looks like someone took a bite out of an apple , said Matthew Mauranoh , 8 , of Mountain View , who peered through a homemade black box at the Foothill Observatory. ; The view was diminished for many in Hawaii and Mexico , where low cloud cover obscured the celestial display. ; As totality arrived at sea level on the Big Island , the sun was hidden in some places by a cloud layer 
At the astronomy observatory at the top of 13,800-foot Mauna Kea , high cirrus clouds thwarted three of the 10 scientific experiments. ; But scientists were still struck by the sight of two plumes of flame extending out 100,000 miles from the sun , one directly on the top of the sun and one at the bottom 
Both were colored bright fuchsia 
Another impressive feature was that the sun's corona , which stretched out for a million miles around the sun , was not symmetrical , but jagged , with spikes and valleys. ; The eclipse ended in a little more than six minutes with a dazzling diamond ring effect on the rim as the first rays of sun emerged from behind the moon. ; [It (PRP)| Another impressive feature (NN)] still got dark below the mountain , but the clouds disappointed about 500 people gathered on the driving range at the Mauna Lani resort in south Kohala 
Because of the clouds , most were unable to see the stages of the eclipse until it got totally dark 
Spectatorshopes had fallen and risen in the previous hour as the clouds came and went. ; I came especially for this , and hope [we (PRP)| Spectators(NNS)] get to see it , said Margaret MacLeod , a mathematics and science teacher from Manhattan Beach shortly before the eclipse in Hawaii 
If [we (PRP)| Spectators(NNS)] do not get to see [it (PRP)| the previous hour (NN)] , [I (PRP)| went. ; I came especially for this (NN)] may have to go to Iraq for the next one 
; In the Bay Area , mostly sunny skies made eclipse-watching a treat , except along the coast , where [it (PRP)| Bay Area (NNP)] was obscured by fog. ; Parks , parking lots , shopping centers , back yards and planetariums became Eclipsefests as the peak approached. ; More than a hundred sun gazers showed up at the Branham Lane Park in South San Jose with almost as many gizmos to help [them (PRP)| More than a hundred sun gazers (NNS)] spot sunspots and watch the moon cross the sun. ; There were funny Mylar glasses , big pinhole projectors , small pinhole projectors , welder's glass , welder's masks , binoculars projecting images onto cardboard and telescopes. ; None was as impressive as Ralph Reevesinterference birefrigent hydrogen alpha filter telescope 
All most of us need to know is that [it (PRP)| Bay Area (NNP)] takes electricity (provided by a gas generator )to run 
And that you can take pictures of the eclipse through [it (PRP)| Bay Area (NNP)] 
That is , if you have film. ; [I (PRP)| Reeves (NNP)] did not bring any film with [me (PRP)| Reeves (NNP)] , said Reeves , a retired Lockheed instrument builder 
Is not that awful ? 
; At the Children's Discovery Museum in downtown San Jose , hundreds of youngsters and adults made cardboard telescopes , which projected the eclipse on white cards through a needle hole opening 
Using mirrors , the eclipse also was projected on the exterior walls of the lavender-colored museum. ; [We (PRP)| hundreds of youngsters and adults (NNS)] wanted to make little theaters for all of the kids to see the eclipse without burning their eyes , said Paul Stonecipher , a discovery museum staff guide. ; For nearly a week now , Hawaii has been turned into an eclipse theme park 
More than 500 astronomers and tens of thousands of amateurs flocked to the islands to sell nearly everything under the sun. ; Sun-minded entrepreneurs hawked eclipse T-shirts (60 different designs ), hats , posters and cookies 
There was even an eclipse haircut and , of course , an eclipse drink at the Eclipse restaurant in Kailua-Kona. ; Everything is selling pretty well except for the eclipse Frisbees 
Nobody wants eclipse Frisbees , said Wild Bill Lawrence , who helped out at Moonshadows , one of many small shops set up to sell eclipse mementos. ; One church offered a nightly eclipse service 
Another invited visitors to come worship with the sun 
; On the commercial strip in Kona , the Big Island's equivalent of Fisherman's Wharf , the eclipse attracted a human mass equivalent to the flock that attends the island's annual Iron Man Triathalon. ; Most of the scientists who are serious about [it (PRP)| a human mass equivalent (NN)] are on the north part of the island , Mary Beth Black , a Kona health food store owner , told Bay Area radio listeners 
The people here for the fun of [it (PRP)| the commercial strip in Kona (NN)] are here in Kona 
; In Mexico City , the eclipse melded with the city's famed smog 
The Anthropology Museum held a ritual depicting the moon attempting to eat the sun 
Guatemalan Indian villagers , who worry during eclipses that the sun will disappear forever , rang church bells and banged pots and pans to resurrect [it (PRP)| the sun's (NN)] 
