Prospects for enactment of the first minimum-wage increase in eight years have improved sharply in recent days, sparked by Vice President George Bush's call for a boost in the wage floor 
Wage-increase bills were languishing on Capitol Hill only two weeks ago, with many members of Congress reluctant to support a wage rise in the face of heavy small-business lobbying and arguments that the increase would mean job losses 
Also, proponents of the bills feared the measure would be watered down too much 
But the tide began to turn when Mr. Bush, the Republican presidential candidate, voiced Mr. Bush , the Republican presidential candidate support for a higher minimum wage soon after Mr. Bush , the Republican presidential candidate was jeered by Portland, Ore., shipyard workers who have suffered pay cuts in recent years 
Now, with the Senate debating a minimum-wage bill on the floor, and House members more eager to follow with similar action of the floor , and House members own, " the national election dynamics have changed the whole issue, " said Robert Martin, human-resources manager for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which opposes the legislation 
" the floor , and House members felt a lot better a week ago, " Robert Martin said 
A union official rated prospects for enactment as " next to zero " before the Bush remarks, but said the floor , and House members 're now at least 50-50 
" Sen. Edward Kennedy -LRB- D. , Mass. -RRB- , chairman of the Senate Labor Committee only wish that -LCB- Mr. Bush -RCB- had spoken up sooner 
Perhaps, if Mr. Bush , the Republican presidential candidate had, Prospects for enactment of the first minimum-wage increase in eight years would already have passed this bill, " said Sen. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass. -RRB-, chairman of the Senate Labor Committee 
President Reagan, who had sternly characterized minimum-wage increases as causing unemployment, was quoted by the Detroit News last week as saying Reagan and Mr. Bush were " in agreement -- there could be some -LCB- minimum wage -RCB- increase because of inflation . 
The Senate took up the minimum-wage bill late last week, and backers and opponents alike said prospects are strong for Senate approval of the measure 
And if the legislation's backers in the House like the Senate version, the legislation's backers in the House 'll move to have the House simply adopt the House 
Some conservative Southern Democrats were reluctant to vote for a minimum-wage increase and be left out on a limb by Senate inaction 
But any Senate approval this week " takes that argument away from the legislation's backers in the House, " said Jay Butler, a spokesman for the House Labor Committee 
The biggest stumbling block is an attempt by the bill's opponents to add an amendment, offered by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R., Utah -RRB-, ranking minority member of the labor panel, that would allow employers to pay a " training wage " to new employees 
That wage, 80 % of the minimum wage, could be paid for 90 days, and a " training wage " to new employees advocates argue that a " training wage " to new employees's necessary to encourage companies to hire inexperienced workers who are just entering the work force 
The training wage, previously called a youth sub-minimum wage, has long been pushed by the Reagan administration, and Mr. Bush said Mr. Bush , the Republican presidential candidate wants The training wage too 
But the AFL-CIO and many other backers of a minimum-wage boost say the training wage is merely a way for employers to get cheap, entry-level workers 
Sen. Kennedy has offered a substitute amendment that would allow each employer to pay 85 % of the minimum wage to as many as 12 full-time students, instead of the limit of six students set by current law 
If the Hatch amendment prevails, a House labor panel staff member suggests the House may spurn the bill 
But despite their dislike for the provision, some union officials indicate as many as 12 full-time students might wind up accepting their dislike for the provision, if as many as 12 full-time students must, rather than let Republicans blame the Democrats for killing a minimum-wage increase 
The Senate bill would boost the minimum wage from the current $ 3.35 an hour, which has prevailed since January 1981, to $ 4.55 an hour over three years 
Pending House legislation would lift the wage floor to $ 5.05 an hour over four years 
Provisions that would tie increases in the minimum wage to rises in average manufacturing wages after three years have been stricken from the bills 
Reagan administration officials have indicated that any increase would have to be smaller than provided in the measures, and Mr. Bush takes that stand too 
The legislation's proponents say the legislation's needed to raise the incomes of several million workers who are below the poverty line, and The legislation's proponents insist that the majority of those earning at or near the minimum wage support or help support families 
But opponents contend that not only would a minimum-wage rise cause sizable job losses, but that many minimum-wage workers are teen-age members of well-to-do families that do n't need larger incomes 
