A nearly seven-year-long journey through Beirut's heart of darkness ended Wednesday for Terry Anderson, the longest-held of the Western hostages in Lebanon, bringing almost to a close a chapter of Middle East history that brought successive U.S. administrations to frustrated impotence before a shadowy group of radical Muslims. ; Anderson arrived in Germany early today and was reunited with the sister who campaigned tirelessly for his release 
Peggy Say dashed forward and gave her brother a huge hug after her brother stepped down from the helicopter at the U.S. Air Force hospital in Wiesbaden. ; Anderson appeared minutes later on a hospital balcony with Joseph Cicippio and Alann Steen, the other two American hostages freed this week. ; After a daylong delay that U.N. officials attributed to snow-blocked roads, Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for the Associated Press, had appeared Wednesday before Terry Anderson colleagues at a press conference in Damascus, Syria, and said, " You ca n't imagine how glad Terry Anderson am to see you . 
; The 44-year-old journalist, who was abducted March 16, 1985, by the Islamic Jihad faction of Iranian-backed Lebanese Shiite Muslims, looked to be in good health and said The 44-year-old journalist was sustained in his long ordeal by The 44-year-old journalist companions in captivity, The 44-year-old journalist religious faith and The 44-year-old journalist " stubbornness . 
; " You wake up every day 
You summon up energy from somewhere 
Terry Anderson do n't know how, " Anderson said as Terry Anderson continuously searched the packed room in the Syrian Foreign Ministry for Beirut-based friends and colleagues, waving and giving Beirut-based friends and colleagues the thumbs-up sign. ; At the news conference in Syria, Anderson said Terry Anderson captors came to Terry Anderson cell Tuesday afternoon with new clothes -- the first new apparel Terry Anderson had worn in almost seven years -- and a pair of new shoes that were pinching Terry Anderson feet. ; When asked what Terry Anderson last words were to his captors, Anderson said simply, " Goodbye, " and laughed. ; After the news conference, Terry Anderson met with Madeleine Bassil, whom Terry Anderson was planning to marry when Terry Anderson was kidnapped, and Terry Anderson 6-year-old daughter, Sulome, whom Terry Anderson had never seen before Wednesday 
In his long captivity, Anderson had treasured a photo of Sulome that his kidnappers allowed Terry Anderson to receive. ; Anderson was the ninth Western hostage to be freed since August 
Terry Anderson release came after months of negotiations led by a special U.N. envoy, Giandomenico Picco, who dealt with Iranians, Israelis and the Lebanese kidnappers. ; In Washington, President Bush, who called Anderson in Damascus " to express the love and admiration that all Americans have for Terry, " said Wednesday Bush joined Anderson's family and friends " in Anderson's family and friends happiness for Terry Anderson return to freedom . 
; The ordeal is n't over ; But Terry Anderson said : " While the American hostages have now been released, Iranians , Israelis and the Lebanese kidnappers. can not say the ordeal is over 
Iranians , Israelis and the Lebanese kidnappers. call for the immediate, safe and unconditional release of all those held outside the legal system in the region, including the two German hostages . 
; Muslim sources in Beirut and Iranian officials have said Thomas Kemptner, 30, and Heinrich Streubig, 50, who were kidnapped May 16, 1989, are expected to be released soon. ; Bush said the United States still wanted a " full accounting " of all hostages who reportedly have died or been killed in captivity. ; Bush called for the immediate return of the remains of Marine Lt. Col. William Higgins and former CIA station chief William Buckley, both of whom were killed by hostage-takers in Lebanon 
Higgins headed a U.N. observer force and Buckley was stationed in Beirut. ; White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater criticized Iran, with whom most of the hostage-taking groups had allied the hostage-taking groups, as " still a terrorist state, " and insisted that the United States had made no deals to gain the release of the U.S. hostages. ; In a great mood ; Anderson appeared to be in an ebullient mood as Terry Anderson joked with Terry Anderson questioners 
Asked how William Higgins felt about being labeled the longest-held Western hostage, William Higgins replied, " It's an honor William Higgins 'd have gladly given up long ago . 
; Anderson wore dark slacks, a white shirt and a dark sweater 
Terry Anderson also wore a pair of glasses precariously perched on Terry Anderson nose with part of the frame missing. ; Terry Anderson said his spirits were kept up by listening to British Broadcasting Corp. newscasts on a radio provided by Terry Anderson kidnappers in the later period of Terry Anderson captivity, and that Terry Anderson was particularly grateful for messages from Terry Anderson family that reached Terry Anderson through Lebanese reporters. ; Before Terry Anderson was released, Anderson read a videotaped message from Islamic Jihad 
The tape preceded Terry Anderson to Damascus, where The tape was handed to an AP reporter. ; " Although his spirits are closing the file of the captives, " the statement declared, " this does n't mean the confrontation with the Americans and Israelis is halted 
The captivity of some persons is only one of the styles to confront 



The war is going on . 
; Anderson said Terry Anderson made clear that the kidnappers ' statement was the kidnappers ' statement, not Terry Anderson, " but Terry Anderson thought it was worthwhile to listen to what his kidnappers had to say . 
; The good news for the hostage in the statement was brief but meaningful : " his kidnappers 're going to free his kidnappers last captive, Terry Anderson, thus folding this page in the hostage file before glorious Christmas . 
; What the hostage in the statement missed ; Some of the events Terry Anderson missed during the hostage in the statement time in captivity : ; (box )1985 : Cruise ship Achille Lauro seized by Palestinians. ; (box )1986 : Space shuttle Challenger explodes 73 seconds into flight. ; (box )1987 : 37 sailors on USS Stark killed by Iraqi missile in Persian Gulf. ; (box )1988 : 270 killed when bomb destroys Pan Am jetliner over Scotland. ; (box )1989 : Powerful earthquake strikes Bay Area. ; (box )1990 : Reunification of Germany completed. ; (box )1991 : U.S. launches attacks in Iraq and Kuwait 
