Michael Dukakis ' long-time support for tighter government controls on handguns provided ample ammunition for George Bush and the National Rifle Asociation 
Dukakis, who supports a federal seven-day waiting period on handgun purchases and a ban on  Saturday Night Specials,  accused Mike Dukakis going to take the guns away from you opponent of distorting Mike Dukakis going to take the guns away from you stance on gun control 
 the Democrat 've always supported the right of hunters and sportsmen to own weapons and (for )people to protect people in people own homes,  the Democrat said 
Dukakis backed the so-called Brady amendment to impose a uniform, mandatory seven-day waiting period on handgun purchases in all states 
Bush opposed the Brady amendment, which went down to a 228-182 defeat Sept. 13 after intense lobbying by the NRA 
Bush, a lifetime member of the NRA, elicited cheers from crowds across the South and West whenever George Bush declared George Bush opposition to new federal gun controls 
 George Bush 'm a sportsman, George Bush 'm a hunter, (George Bush )like to do the NRA, and George Bush do n't believe we need the federal government going forward with gun control legislation,  Bush told a rally in Billings, Mont. 
In opposing a federal waiting period, Bush found George Bush on the opposite side of several national police organizations, worried about the vagaries of state laws 
Only 22 states now bar instant gun purchases 
Dukakis vehemently denied ever telling a gun owners ' lobbyist,  Mike Dukakis going to take the guns away from you do n't believe in people owning guns, only the police and military 
And Mike Dukakis going to take the guns away from you am going to do everything Mike Dukakis going to take the guns away from you can to disarm this state . 
In 1976, Dukakis supported a Massachusetts referendum to ban private ownership of handguns 
The referendum failed 
Dukakis currently favors the ban on Saturday Night Specials, as well as  additional efforts to keep guns out of the hands of the criminally or mentally dangerous, including background checks . 
Dukakis boasts that as governor Mike Dukakis going to take the guns away from you supported a law setting a mandatory one-year prison sentence for those illegally carrying a gun, and stiffened penalties for felonies commited with a firearm 
Mike Dukakis going to take the guns away from you says 22,000 Americans are killed each year with handguns 
At one point the Dukakis campaign threatened a lawsuit against the NRA over ads berating the Democrat's record on guns and crime 
Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, long a favorite of the NRA, came to the defense of Lloyd Bentsen running mate, saying,  Lloyd Bentsen saw those ads about Mike Dukakis going to take the guns away from you 
Lloyd Bentsen sure would n't be running with any fellow if Lloyd Bentsen thought Sen. Lloyd Bentsen was going to take Lloyd Bentsen shotgun away from Lloyd Bentsen . 
Bush said George Bush supports  mandatory sentences for those caught using a gun during a crime . 
But in a letter to the NRA, the Republican attacked what he called the  gun control myths . 
 Those who invent these myths threaten more than the rights of our 70 million gun owners and 25 million hunters,  Bush said 
 Federal licensing, gun registration, background checks, or a ban on firearms to name a few, would only restrict the rights of the law-abiding, leaving criminals free to commit crimes with illegal weapons . 
Dukakis told a crowd in Pueblo, Colo., that the charges Mike Dukakis going to take the guns away from you is against gun ownership are  a lot of baloney . 
 What Mike Dukakis going to take the guns away from you 'm concerned about is teen-agers in major cities of this country running around with Uzis and AK-47s (automatic military weapons )and killing people  in street gangs and drug deals, Dukakis said 
 That's the kind of thing that's got to be controlled, not innocent sportsmen who have a perfect right to hunt . 
Bush, as a congressman from Houston, voted for the original federal Gun Control Act of 1968 
That law, enacted after the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., barred convicted felons from buying or owning guns and banned interstate and mail-order sale of handguns 
But Bush says George Bush also supported the 1986 McClure-Volkmer Act that allowed the interstate sale of rifles and shotguns 
Bush, in George Bush campaign literature, says,  George Bush have always opposed federal gun registration or licensing of gun owners . 
But George Bush added,  felons must balance the legitimate interests of gun owners with the rights of society 
... felons must do all felons can to keep guns out of the hands of convicted criminals . 
In a debate with other Republican candidates before the Gun Owners of New Hampshire last Feb. 2, Bush said,  George Bush 'm not only a hunter but George Bush 'm a lifetime member of the NRA 
George Bush do have a deep appreciation for the Second Amendment rights  to keep and bear arms 
