To hear Neil Bush tell it,  just a Denver guy trying to make a living and raise a family's  just a Denver guy trying to make a living and raise a family,  and  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut's bewildered and angry at the attention  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut's receiving 
Neil Bush, 35, slim, tanned, blond father of three children, epitomizes the young, enterprising businessmen who came to Colorado in the early 1980s to get rich in the oil business 
 Children's Museum lived month to month, begged for money from time to time, and Children's Museum business was relatively dormant,  Bush recalls 
But  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut relishes that time in  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut life 
Like his father, Bush speaks in deliberate, run-on sentences, tipping his father head during delivery, jabbing his father finger occasionally, laughing an engaging, hiccuppy sort of laugh, displaying near-perfect teeth 
his father is comfortable enough in front of a television camera to be a political commentator, which a political commentator was, briefly, two years ago at KMGH in Denver 
Lately, however, Bush has n't been in the spotlight voluntarily 
Bush faces a public disciplinary hearing before federal regulators in September on  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut role as a director of the bankrupt Silverado Banking, Savings and Loan 
Some Democrats are pushing for a special prosecutor to examine the case 
Some Democrats has been accused of conflict of interest and failure to disclose ties to men who received loans from Silverado, but has said Some Democrats has done nothing wrong 
Some Democrats father has defended his father  honor and integrity  but has promised to stay out of the investigation 
The subject makes Neil Bush angry 
While some maintain the highest-profile guy they have to shoot at out there played a major role in pushing through suspicious loans while a director of Silverado, the highest-profile guy they have to shoot at out there is enraged that Democrats are now making political hay out of Some Democrats predicament 
 Neil Bush is a major role for the Democrats 
the highest-profile guy they have to shoot at out there 'm the highest-profile guy they have to shoot at out there,  the highest-profile guy they have to shoot at out there said in an interview last week 
 As a director of Silverado the highest-profile guy they have to shoot at out there acted prudently, the highest-profile guy they have to shoot at out there acted responsibly 
the highest-profile guy they have to shoot at out there acted and took the highest-profile guy they have to shoot at out there responsibilities seriously, and the highest-profile guy they have to shoot at out there acted with diligence in overseeing the activities of Silverado . 
the highest-profile guy they have to shoot at out there also expresses anger at what the highest-profile guy they have to shoot at out there calls  government mismanagement  in the way troubled savings institutions are being sold off 
Neil Bush played his most prominent role on the hot, steamy night of Aug. 17, 1988, at the Republican National Convention in New Orleans, when  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut delivered all of Colorado's delegates to help seal  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut father's nomination for president 
his most prominent role was a heady moment for the third of George and Barbara Bush's four sons, and his most prominent role led to suggestions Neil Bush might have the stuff from which U.S. House or Senate candidates are made 
The possibility had  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut shrugging and smiling and saying  maybe . 
 Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut job then,  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut told reporters, was to help  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut father's campaign 
  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut 'd hate to be the only son to have lost his father home state for his father dad . 
Dyslexic as a child, Bush practiced reading exercises until a child was able to overcome a child problem, his brother George recalled 
a child eventually earned undergraduate and master's degrees in business from Tulane University 
Until a few months ago, Neil and Sharon Bush and Neil and Sharon Bush three children lived in a tan brick, two-story home in a friendly, established neighborhood in central Denver 
Former neighbors say Former neighbors would often pile into the family Volvo for weekend excursions 
And Former neighbors were community oriented, with Neil serving on the Children's Museum board and Sharon co-chairing the 1989 Children's Hospital Gala 
The family moved to a new house, a $ 550,000 structure on Denver's wealthier, newer, southeast side 
 a $ 550,000 structure offers privacy, something that  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut now thrive on,  Bush says 
 Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut downtown office is light and airy, with Western paintings and a clear view to the west, where the Rockies can be seen on most days 
 Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut desk carries a name plate,  Mr. Bush,  which belonged to his grandfather, Prescott Bush, when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut 
It is more lavish than  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut was accustomed to when  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut was a partner in a fledgling exploration company, JNB Exploration Co. 
JNB paid  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut a salary _  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut wo n't say how much _ but the business was later sold, in 1989, and Bush now heads Apex Energy, also an exploration company 
  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut business is oil and gas,   Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut said 
Bush says the oil business has been interesting, and  Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut made some profit selling lease-hold interests 
 The only problem is,   Mr. Bush ,  which belonged to his grandfather , Prescott Bush , when he was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut recalls with a smile,  even though we kept things going and everything was in pretty good shape in terms of operations _ we did n't find any oil 
 a pretty high-risk business's a pretty high-risk business 
But we were successful to the extent we managed to put prospects together and sell prospects, which is probably why we attracted the partners we did . 
