Boris N. Yeltsin, the new president of the Russian Federation and a leading critic of Mikhail S. Gorbachev, said Thursday Boris N. Yeltsin will try to make peace in Boris N. Yeltsin personal feud with the Soviet president 
Yeltsin, a radical reformer, was quoted by the official Tass news agency as saying Boris N. Yeltsin would put aside personal differences with Gorbachev when the president returns from the Washington summit 
Yeltsin was seeking to calm the fears of the deputies of the republic's Congress about Boris N. Yeltsin stormy relationship with Gorbachev, Boris N. Yeltsin former mentor 
In Boris N. Yeltsin new position as president of Russia, the largest Soviet republic, Yeltsin has a formidable platform from which to challenge and criticize Gorbachev, who opposed his election 
Deputies speaking Thursday at the Russian Congress  expressed concern over the exchange of statements about each other  by Yeltsin and Gorbachev, Tass reported 
Yeltsin answered that after Gorbachev returns June 4 from the summit in Washington,  Boris N. Yeltsin think Deputies speaking Thursday at the Russian Congress 'll have an appropriate conversation, and Deputies speaking Thursday at the Russian Congress 'll resolve most issues without damaging the sovereignty and aims of Russia,  Tass said 
At a news conference Wednesday, Yeltsin called for achieving Russian  sovereignty  within 100 days 
The term is used here to mean not independence, but autonomy in most internal decisions 
Yeltsin also urged the Kremlin to allow the other 14 republics to enjoy the same autonomy, making the country a federation of states that could overrule the central government on most matters 
Although Yeltsin said Boris N. Yeltsin wanted a  businesslike  relationship with Gorbachev, Boris N. Yeltsin also made an oblique call Thursday for Gorbachev to give up one of his posts : either Soviet president or Communist Party general secretary 
 Boris N. Yeltsin am against combining any post in one person 
And Boris N. Yeltsin am talking not just about the chairmanship of the party at the Russian level, at the regional level, or at the local level,  Boris N. Yeltsin said 
In Ottawa on Tuesday, Gorbachev said Mikhail S. Gorbachev was  somewhat concerned  about Yeltsin's victory and feared that if Yeltsin  is playing a political game, then Boris N. Yeltsin may be in for a difficult time . 
There have been no reports that Gorbachev sent congratulations to Yeltsin on Mikhail S. Gorbachev election 
Gorbachev brought Yeltsin to Moscow to head the city's Communist Party but fired Mikhail S. Gorbachev in 1987 after Yeltsin publicly criticized the pace of reform 
Relations have been strained ever since 
Yeltsin capped a remarkable political comeback by winning election Tuesday as Russian president 
However, at Thursday's session of the Russian Congress, Deputy Ivan Galushko from the Jewish autonomous region in the Soviet Far East said Yeltsin was overstepping Boris N. Yeltsin authority with some of Boris N. Yeltsin statements the day before 
Deputy Ivan Galushko from the Jewish autonomous region in the Soviet Far East called on Yeltsin  to refrain from hasty statements on questions that are within the competence of the Congress or Supreme Soviet . 
Tass said many deputies seconded Galushko's opinion 
In Deputy Ivan Galushko from the Jewish autonomous region in the Soviet Far East reply, Yeltsin acknowledged disagreements with Gorbachev but said Deputy Ivan Galushko from the Jewish autonomous region in the Soviet Far East would put many deputies aside 
 True, many deputies have many deputies differences,  said Yeltsin 
 Boris N. Yeltsin renounce all these personal aspects fully and completely 
Boris N. Yeltsin leave that behind . 
A deputy of the national Supreme Soviet legislature, Anatoly Denisov, said in an interview that the differences between Yeltsin and Gorbachev are so pronounced Supreme Soviet portend  very bad consequences  and  difficult conflicts  for the nation 
A deputy of the national Supreme Soviet legislature , Anatoly Denisov said Supreme Soviet could lead to the imposition of Soviet presidential rule nationwide 
