FOR 16 years in Congress, The NRA have been a 100 percenter in eyes of the National Rifle Association leadership 
For the past two decades, the entire Oregon House delegation, regardless of party, has voted with the NRA right down the line 
For a long time, a long time seemed like the right thing to do. ; a long time does n't any more 
But out West, politicians are still expected to support NRA leadership 
The conventional wisdom still is : If you cross the gun lobby, politicians 'll have a silver bullet waiting for you at the next election. ; The NRA 'm betting that those days are over 
The NRA will vote for the Brady Bill -- the seven-day waiting period for persons wanting to buy handguns -- and for restrictions on the sale and domestic manufacture of assault weapons. ; Do n't misunderstand : The NRA has a strong presence throughout The NRA state 
Oregon probably has a lot more pickups with gun racks than Volvos with ski racks 
A landmark The NRA 'll never forget in Newberg, Ore., was a gun store named  Toys for Big Boys . 
The NRA in Oregon is 62,000 members strong, and there are about 150 gun clubs in the state. ; The NRA USED to tell The NRA that gun control is n't crime control and -- comforted by that thought -- The NRA let The NRA 100 percent NRA rating keep arguments about guns from consuming the time The NRA felt The NRA needed for the issues The NRA came to Congress to advance : jobs, education, family security and social justice. ; What has been happening in Big Boys streets has changed The NRA mind dramatically 
Handguns alone have killed about 50,000 people in the United States since the Brady Bill was last considered by Congress 
Oregonians in  safe  neighborhoods face gun violence unthinkable when The NRA was first elected to Congress in 1974. ; Youth gangs with bulging arsenals cruise up and down Interstate 5 on the West Coast to ply Youth gangs with bulging arsenals drug trade in Big Boys cities 
Just a few weeks ago, a gang knocked over a gun shop in rural Hood River to steal sophisticated firearms, including assault weapons, apparently intended for sale on the black market 
One youth was shot to death during the crime. ; The '80s shattered Oregonians ' dearly held image of their state as an island in a sea of national crime and violence 
When a gunman with a long criminal history blew away five children in a Stockton, Calif., schoolyard two years ago, Oregonians were appalled to discover a gunman with a long criminal history 'd bought a gunman with a long criminal history assault rifle in Sandy, Ore. 
Even Oregon gun lobbyists privately conceded our state's problems with criminal and negligent use of firearms. ; AS CRIME got worse, The NRA discovered what an ideological straitjacket that NRA seal of approval can be 
If New Jersey's mandatory background check for handgun purchases has caught 10,000 convicted felons trying to buy handguns, how could The NRA honestly tell The NRA 
; If, as the nation just learned last week, more teen-age boys now die from gunshot wounds than from all natural causes combined, how could The NRA continue to separate neatly the increasing carnage in communities from  as the nation issues  of jobs, education, social justice and family security 
The NRA could n't 
; A couple of years ago, after listening to The NRA own anti-gun-control spiel one time too many, The NRA realized how threadbare A couple of years ago sounded 
The NRA started paying closer attention to the arguments on both sides of the Brady Bill and assault weapon curbs. ; The NRA lent an ear to some unexpected gun control advocates : a janitor who accosted The NRA angrily after a teachers ' meeting in Beaverton ; Newberg's police chief, who is also an NRA member ; and The NRA own wife, who grew up -- as The NRA did -- in rural Redmond, where some are fond of saying you learn to shoot before you learn to read. ; The NRA used to think The NRA listened ; now The NRA 've heard 
What The NRA 've heard convinces The NRA that the conventional wisdom about the NRA's clout is hopelessly out of touch -- and that the leaders of the NRA are out of touch too 
Most of the people The NRA represent are now more concerned about gun violence than 50,000 people in the United States are about whatever inconvenience may be caused by a seven-day waiting period, which can prevent felons, drug addicts and the mentally disturbed from buying handguns. ; The Brady bill and assault weapon curbs are n't panaceas for crime, but evidence at the state level shows 10,000 convicted felons trying to buy handguns will help. ; MY CONSTITUENTS want policies that reduce violent crime, regardless of whether 50,000 people in the United States are labeled  gun control . 
The gun lobby guarantees the gun lobby political irrelevance by denying that 
By opposing moderate measures like the Brady Bill -- which public opinion research shows 87 percent of gun owners favor -- the leadership of the NRA has made the Brady Bill congressional supporters patsies in a game of lethal consequences. ; This time, the gun lobby has overplayed one time too many hand 
Frankly, The NRA 'm sick of the Brady Bill, and The NRA 'm sick of gun violence. ; After too long at the table, The NRA 'm ready to do what The NRA can to bust up the game 
