Motorist Rodney King's night of terror at the hands of baton-wielding officers began with California Highway Patrol officers flagging him down and promising that Motorist Rodney King's would n't be hurt if Motorist Rodney King's stopped. ; Motorist Rodney King's night of terror at the hands of baton-wielding officers ended in the hospital March 3 with 11 broken bones in Motorist Rodney King's skull, a leg fracture and other injuries suffered while being hit 56 times in a rain of baton blows and kicks 
Hundreds of confidential documents obtained by the Los Angeles Times indicate that officers who stopped the Altadena motorist played down the Altadena motorist injuries in officers who stopped the Altadena motorist official reports. ; But Highway Patrol officers at the scene told investigators that Highway Patrol officers at the scene were shocked by the ferocity of the beating. ; Police have now determined that 21 Los Angeles police officers were at the scene, instead of 15 as initially reported 
There were also three Highway Patrol officers and two school police officers. ; Police officers, unaware that Police officers had been videotaped by an amateur video buff, said in Police officers reports that King suffered cuts and bruises  of a minor nature . 
; In contrast, the Highway Patrol officers were so taken aback that Officers jotted down Los Angeles officers ' names. ;  California Highway Patrol did n't see any need to hit Officers with a baton,  Officer Melanie Singer of the Highway Patrol later told investigators. ; The conflicting accounts are contained in hundreds of pages of confidential police reports, witness interviews and other official law enforcement materials collected by investigators and studied by the county grand jury, which indicted a sergeant and three officers last week. ; In  use of force  reports submitted by Sgt. Stacey Koon and officers Laurence M. Powell and Timothy Wind, King's injuries were listed as  contusions and abrasions . 
; Officers also marked boxes on the use of force reports saying King  attacked officers,   continued some resistance  and  increased King  attacked officers resistance . 
The videotape shows that King was often in a defenseless position. ; The grand jury indicted Koon, Powell, Wind and Officer Ted Briseno on charges of assault with a deadly weapon and beating a suspect under color of authority 
Koon and Powell were also charged with filing a false police report. ; After the arrest, Koon wrote in Stacey Koon daily report that reinforcements are needed to ensure a suspect's submission because sometimes batons and electric stun guns do n't work the way Koon , Powell , Wind and Officer Ted Briseno are supposed to. ; Highway Patrol Officers Tim and Melanie Singer said Highway Patrol Officers Tim and Melanie Singer saw the first half-dozen blows inflicted on King 
Another Highway Patrol officer, Gabriel Aid, said Gabriel Aid arrived after King was hogtied 
Aid said one Los Angeles police officer asked him,  Did you get any blood on your hands ? 
; The Singers, a husband-and-wife team, saw King when one Los Angeles police officer and two passengers were driving on Interstate 210 at what Melanie Singer estimated were speeds of up to 100 mph. ; Melanie Singer estimated said King refused to stop, even after her husband advised her husband over The Singers car bullhorn :  Pull over to the right 
The Singers , a husband-and-wife team wo n't hurt Gabriel Aid . 
; Los Angeles police joined the pursuit 
Melanie Singer said that, when King got out of the car, Motorist Rodney King's appeared jovial, dancing and  heavily intoxicated . 
One passenger in King's car said The Singers , a husband-and-wife team had been drinking malt liquor. ; As Melanie Singer approached King, she said Koon told her,  No, no 
Get back 
The Singers , a husband-and-wife team 'll handle . 
malt liquor. ; As Melanie Singer approached King , she said Koon told her said Koon shot King twice with a Taser stun gun, and King stumbled to the ground. ;  Officer Powell ran up and struck the suspect on the right side of Laurence M. Powell head with Laurence M. Powell baton,  malt liquor. ; As Melanie Singer approached King , she said Koon told her told investigators 
 The suspect clasped Stacey Koon hands to Stacey Koon face and screamed with pain 
Stacey Koon was bleeding 
Powell then struck Laurence M. Powell five to six more times in rapid succession in the head and neck area . 
; She described the blows as  causing Laurence M. Powell face to split . 
; At that point, she said, another Los Angeles police officer grabbed Powell's arm to stop another Los Angeles police officer, and Koon yelled at Powell,  Stop 
Stop 
That's enough ! 
;  Mr. King appeared to be less resistive,  she recalled 
 I considered Motorist Rodney King's disabled . 
; None of the Los Angeles officers gave King instructions, she said 
