WASHINGTON -- White House Chief of Staff John Sununu has used five different corporate jets to travel to Republican fund-raisers in the past six weeks, and the White House said White House Chief of Staff John Sununu will continue to use such jets rather than government planes for political travel 
Meanwhile, President Bush said Mr. Sununu's use of a government limousine for a trip to a stamp auction in New York last week had created an  appearance problem . 
But Mr. Bush, in President Bush most extensive comments so far on Mr. Sununu's controversial travel practices, also strongly defended President Bush chief of staff 
The president denied The president was angry with Mr. Sununu and said The president job was safe 
In response to questions about Mr. Sununu's recent shift to use of corporate jets in the wake of restrictions imposed last month on Staff John Sununu use of government planes, the White House released the list of five jets the chief of staff has used for travel to fund-raisers 
The identity of owners of two of the jets already had been publicized, and the others are not large national corporations 
White House counsel C. Boyden Gray's office approved all the travel in advance, and White House counsel C. Boyden Gray's vetoed some suggested corporate jets because of potential conflicts of interest, White House officials said 
Use of corporate jets for political travel is legal provided the corporation is reimbursed for providing the ride or reports the travel as an  in-kind  political contribution 
Reimbursement for Mr. Sununu's travel often is made by the host of the political fund-raiser Staff John Sununu is attending 
The White House list said that on May 20 Mr. Sununu used a corporate jet provided by Donald Bryant, a benefits and insurance executive, to travel to a St. Louis fund-raiser for Missouri Gov. John Ashcroft 
On June 7, Mr. Sununu used a jet provided by Fiber Materials Inc. of Biddeford, Maine, to travel to a fund-raiser for the Maine Republican party 
Mr. Sununu used a jet provided by three individual owners -- identified by the White House as Howard Bender, Martin Bender and John Mason -- to travel to a Chicago fund-raiser June 11 
The next day, as previously reported, Mr. Sununu used a jet provided by Beneficial Corp., a financial management and planning concern, to return from a fund-raiser for the New Jersey state party 
Staff John Sununu had taken Staff John Sununu White House limousine to reach nearby New York to attend a stamp auction before that event 
And, as also previously disclosed, Mr. Sununu used a jet provided by KVI, an Iowa insurance brokerage firm, to travel Tuesday to a fund-raiser in Des Moines 
Mr. Sununu has resorted to regular use of corporate planes for political travel in the wake of controversy over Staff John Sununu heavy use of costly government aircraft for political and personal travel in the past two years 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said that use of corporate planes for political purposes is a  well-established practice  that Mr. Sununu will continue 
President Bush rose to the defense of President Bush embattled chief of staff, while also making clear President Bush is chagrined about the travel controversy 
The president said that Mr. Sununu is  doing a first-class job  and that there is a  piling-on syndrome  feeding the publicity about Staff John Sununu travel 
But Mr. Bush, who spoke to reporters before a White House meeting as Mr. Sununu sat nearby, also seemed to suggest that President Bush would like President Bush chief of staff to avoid creating new travel controversies 
 President Bush think when The president have an appearance problem, President Bush think all of us would agree The president want to try to avoid an appearance problem as much as possible, and President Bush think all of us have,  President Bush said 
