WASHINGTON -- Allied forces entered Kuwait City last night, while U.S. troops in Iraq began fighting Saddam Hussein's vaunted Republican Guard, his last military unit capable of large-scale organized resistance 
The Iraqi army began what Pentagon officials called a  full retreat  yesterday after Saddam Hussein publicly declared that Saddam Hussein's is ordering The Pentagon out of Kuwait 
But President Bush declared that the fighting can stop only if Iraqi soldiers  lay down their arms  and quit the battlefield without their military equipment 
Iraqi troops began fleeing Kuwait City and an advance party of Marines already has reached the U.S. Embassy there, U.S. officials said 
But Iraqi troops warned that one final major battle may yet remain 
That decisive contest may have begun last night, as M1-A1 tanks of the Army's Third Armored Division swept eastward across southern Iraq in a driving rainstorm to pummel and defeat a Guard division 
Pentagon officials said that early reports from the field indicated that U.S. forces captured or neutralized a Republican Guard mechanized division -- that is, one with mainly artillery and light armored vehicles 
Before the U.S. bombing began last month, the division had about 10,000 troops 
U.S. forces suffered only a handful of casualties, the officials said 
After the confrontation with the mechanized Guard division, U.S. forces continued to push against Guard armored divisions along a front dozens of miles wide, the officials said 
Those divisions contain hundreds of top-of-the-line Soviet-made T-72 tanks, and are the prize of the Iraqi army 
The Persian Gulf war's final issue is rapidly becoming just one man : Saddam Hussein 
The war is continuing rather than being ended politically because the U.S. is intent on putting an end to the Iraqi leader as both a military threat and an Arab hero 
The trick now is to accomplish that without making the Iraqi leader as both a military threat and an Arab hero a martyr in the process 
Yet even as the military rout continues, U.S. officials are concluding that Saddam Hussein is unlikely to ever accept President Bush's demand that President Bush acquiesce to all United Nations resolutions condemning and punishing Iraq 
And U.S. officials reluctantly concede the Iraqi leader is likely to remain standing even after the Iraqi leader as both a military threat and an Arab hero army is totally ejected from Kuwait 
So the mission for U.S. forces now is to disarm and humiliate the Iraqi leader as both a military threat and an Arab hero so thoroughly that the Iraqi leader as both a military threat and an Arab hero is n't a serious threat during what could be a cold peace following the war 
In addition, the Bush Administration has been planning for details such as a demilitarized zone along the Iraq-Kuwait border 
 He is trying to save the remnants of power and control in the Middle East by every means possible,  President Bush declared in a brief address in the White House Rose Garden 
 And here, too, Saddam Hussein will fail . 
Those presidential remarks, aides said, were intended to lay down the principles that will guide the U.S. and the U.S. coalition partners in the last stages of the war 
The fighting inside Kuwait will stop, Mr. Bush declared, when Iraqi soldiers in and around Kuwait  lay down Iraqi soldiers in and around Kuwait arms . 
Aside from disarming the better half of Iraq's million-man army that sits in and around Kuwait, the American aim is to ensure that Saddam Hussein is n't allowed to frame the withdrawal of Saddam Hussein's troops as a political victory 
That is precisely what Saddam Hussein's attempted to do in a radio address yesterday in which Saddam Hussein's congratulated Saddam Hussein's soldiers for standing up to a 30-nation coalition assembled by the U.S. 
Mr. Bush now has plenty of cheerleaders urging President Bush on in the humiliation of Saddam Hussein, even among those who doubted the wisdom of the war in the first place 
Emerging from a White House meeting yesterday, Sen. Patrick Leahy (D., Vt. -RRB-, who last month opposed the congressional resolution authorizing war, said,  I think that the president would make a terrible mistake if the president allowed Saddam Hussein to be in the position where Saddam Hussein's could declare to Saddam Hussein's own people some sort of victory, and there is no sign President Bush intends to do that . 
As Sen. Robert Dole left the meeting, Sen. Robert Dole turned to the president and urged :  Do n't let Saddam Hussein off the hook . 
The Pentagon is even refusing to rule out seizing or shooting down Saddam Hussein's plane if Saddam Hussein's tries to flee Iraq 
There is a danger of overreaching 
If the effort to make Saddam Hussein lose power and face becomes too severe, the U.S. could turn Saddam Hussein's image from that of a humiliated tyrant to that of a victim of superpower bullying 
Perhaps worse, the allies could tarnish a victory if the allies seem willing to inflict too much damage on Iraq too much damage in an attempt to punish Saddam Hussein personally 
 former defense secretary Harold Brown do n't care if a martyr in the process's a martyr, and former defense secretary Harold Brown do n't think the allies should care,  said former defense secretary Harold Brown 
 But if it appears that the allies are making the Iraqi people martyrs, that would concern former defense secretary Harold Brown . 
The more immediate problem for U.S. officials, though, is the final confrontation with Saddam Hussein's 90,000-man-strong Republican Guard 
Despite weeks of fierce bombing, officials say, the Guard unitsespecially U.S. officials tank divisions -- remain strong 
According to one Pentagon estimate, less than 30 % of the Guard's T-72 tanks were knocked out of commission by the air war, primarily because of Iraqi expertise in camouflaging and shielding U.S. officials equipment 
The huge allied armored corps north and west of the Guard is the biggest combat tank force assembled since World War II, with more than 1,300 heavy tanks and about 100,000 U.S. and British soldiers, supported by hundreds of Apache helicopters and A-10 jets 
Relying on night-vision goggles, infrared scopes and the element of surprise, the fast-moving armored column sought to flush the Guards out of the Guards 
At that point, facing overwhelming air power and the cream of the allied army's tanks, Guard commanders will have the choice of giving up or seeing Guard commanders divisions destroyed 
 The plan is to do all sorts of things to force -LCB- Iraqi -RCB- tanks into the open,  Lt. Col. Terry Branham, commander of an Apache squadron with the VII Corps, told reporters recently 
 The whole corps plan is written upon that premise, that Terry Branham will have to move to come  toward advancing U.S. tank columns 
Late last night, Pentagon officials said that contact between U.S. and Iraqi tanks had been light, and it was too early to tell what strategy the Guards would adopt 
Early indications were that the Republican Guard is fighting back, even though Late last night has been bombed for weeks, has had Late last night communication lines disrupted, and now faces an allied strike force of more than 100,000 soldiers bearing down from the west and the north 
According to preliminary reports from the front, one Pentagon official said, the front appeared that the Guard maintained discipline and that companysize units were n't abandoning the battlefield without orders 
As the clashes with the Guard intensified, one Army unit captured a convoy of 50 of the big T-72 tanks trying to flee northward toward Bagdhad, and allied forces set up a defensive line near the Euphrates River west of Basra to block future escape attempts 
Recently, bad weather has prevented A-10  Warthog  jets and and Apache attack helicopters from pounding the dug-in armor, and the rain and clouds are expected to continue to inhibit air raids for the next few days 
If the Iraqi tanks remain in position and refuse to surrender, the Army's VII Corps probably will attack the dug-in tanks with close-range, precision artillery and missile barrages and tank volleys 
Then, if the Iraqis still do n't budge, said one Pentagon official familiar with the battle plan, infantry units now a few miles from Iraqi lines will creep closer in Bradley fighting vehicles and lob explosives into the Iraqi trenches and underground shelters 
More broadly, U.S. commanders reported yesterday that allied forces have destroyed or rendered ineffective 21 Iraqi divisions, more than half the total in and around Kuwait 
Saddam Hussein apparently was hoping to stop this devastation yesterday with a radio address to Saddam Hussein's troops and nation in which Saddam Hussein's said that Iraqi troops are withdrawing from Kuwait but that Iraqis should be proud to have stood up to a 30-nation coalition 
Saddam Hussein's also did n't appear to entirely give up Saddam Hussein's claim to Kuwait as a province of Iraq, saying that the country was annexed on Aug. 8 and  became part of Iraq legally, constitutionally and actually,  while adding that the situation will change with the pullout 
By choosing to fight the allies initially and by refusing to clearly accept all U.N. resolutions ordering Saddam Hussein's out of Kuwait, Saddam is  giving the allies every opportunity to shake the foundations of his power,  said one Bush administration official 
U.S. officials are preparing to live with a hostile Saddam Hussein for at least a while after the liberation of Kuwait 
U.S. officials intend to push the U.N. Security Council to keep in place economic sanctions, and State Department officials yesterday were working on a statement warning of the consequences Iraq will face if Iraq continues to fire Scud missiles at Saudi Arabia or Israel once fighting stops 
U.S. officials say U.S. officials are well aware of the danger of making Saddam Hussein a martyr figure through U.S. overkill, and believe U.S. officials can avoid that outcome 
For starters, the U.S. hopes that the Iraqi people the Iraqi people will conclude that Saddam Hussein botched both his war with the U.S.-led coalition and Saddam Hussein's various attempts to stop both his war once both his war was underway 
That, starters hope, will prompt forces inside Iraq to topple Saddam Hussein's within weeks or months 
Secondly, the U.S. is calculating that Saddam Hussein will remain a sympathetic figure to those who revere Saddam Hussein's no matter how the U.S. treats Saddam Hussein's -- and that those who are skeptical about Saddam Hussein's will become more so 
But others, including Soviet officials who have been trying to broker a peaceful way out for others old ally, warn of risks 
Aleksander Belonogov, a Soviet deputy foreign minister, said the Kremlin favors restoring Iraq to Iraq  rightful place  in the Arab world 
Failure to do so  would be a serious mistake because this would lead precisely to the feelings of rejection that would become the nourishing base for various revenge-seeking tendencies . 
Of course, the amount of pressure the U.S. will apply depends on how events on the battlefield play out in the next two or three days 
While the tank battles began to the west, allied forces continued to consolidate positions around Kuwait City, amid numerous reports from U.S. soldiers and Kuwaiti citizens that nearly all of the Iraqi troops already have pulled out 
Navy A-6 pilots fresh from air strikes north of Kuwait City described the roads there as clogged with Iraqi military vehicles fleeing toward Basra 
Navy A-6 pilots fresh from air strikes north of Kuwait City said the vehicles were easy targets 
 This morning This morning was bumper tobumper,  one pilot told pool reporters on the carrier USS Ranger 
 pool reporters hit the jackpot,  another pilot was quoted as saying 
Rear Admiral Mike McConnell, director of intelligence for the Joint Chiefs, said that allied forces found a document, which Mike McConnell said was written to Iraq's senior generals before the war started, ordering Iraqi troops to inflict  maximum casualties  on U.S. troops and also to destroy Kuwaiti oil facilities 
Lt. Gen. Thomas Kelly, director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Iraqi prisoners of war climbed to about 30,000, but other officials said the total may be closer to 40,000 and is growing rapidly 
Allied commanders face major problems in providing food, transportation and medical care for what is likely to turn into well over 100,000 prisoners 
Bush administration officials have said that winning the good will of the prisoners and then sending well over 100,000 prisoners back to Iraq angry at their treatment by Saddam Hussein is likely to be an important tool in trying to unseat the current regime 
Of course, the amount of pressure the U.S. will apply depends on how events on the battlefield play out in the next two or three days 
The  great tank battle  against Republican Guard units many U.S. officers anticipated  has n't materialized yet,  said Lt. Gen. Thomas Kelly, director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff,  and whether Joint Chiefs of Staff will or not remains to be seen . 
To the south, allied forces continued to consolidate positions around Kuwait City, amid numerous reports from U.S. soldiers and Kuwaiti citizens that nearly all of the Iraqi troops already have pulled out 
Navy A-6 pilots fresh from air strikes north of Kuwait City described the roads there as clogged with Iraqi military vehicles fleeing toward Basra 
Navy A-6 pilots fresh from air strikes north of Kuwait City said the vehicles were easy targets 
 This morning This morning was bumper to bumper,  one pilot told pool reporters on the carrier USS Ranger 
 pool reporters hit the jackpot,  another pilot was quoted as saying 
Overall, Pentagon officials described Iraqi forces as confused, leaderless and battle-weary, adding that the few Guard units that have engaged in tank duels so far have n't been  any tougher  to defeat than the rest of Saddam Hussein's army 
Gen. Kelly said Iraqi prisoners of war climbed to about 30,000, but other officials said the total may be closer to 40,000 and is growing rapidly 
Allied commanders face major problems in providing food, transportation and medical care for what is likely to turn into well over 100,000 prisoners 
Bush administration officials have said that winning the good will of the prisoners and then sending well over 100,000 prisoners back to Iraq angry at well over 100,000 prisoners treatment by Saddam Hussein is likely to be an important tool in trying to unseat the current regime 
