Former tanker skipper Joseph Hazelwood , accused of being drunk , reckless and most responsible for the nation's worst oil spill , was acquitted of all but a minor pollution charge by an Alaskan jury Thursday 
In a crowded courtroom that included his wife and father , Hazelwood , 43 , was found not guilty of felony mischief , operating a vessel while under the influence of alcohol and reckless endangerment 
The lone guilty verdict was for the negligent discharge of oil , a misdemeanor carrying a maximum penalty of 90 days in jail and a $ 1,000 fine , far less than the 7 years and $ 61,000 fine Joseph Hazelwood  faced if convicted on all counts 
The verdicts came two days before the anniversary of the grounding of the Exxon Valdez , which spilled 11 million gallons of crude oil into Alaska's Prince William Sound after slamming into a reef and ripping open its hull 
The jury deliberated less than 11 hours 
Bursts of applause greeted each not guilty verdict read by Judge Karl Johnstone 
Attorney Michael Chalos triumphantly slammed the defense table with Attorney Michael Chalos  fist when the felony charge fell first 
We are not done 
We are going to appeal that misdemeanor , but we are very happy that all the serious charges were rejected , Chalos said later 
Sentencing was set for this afternoon 
Regardless of the appeal results , however , legal problems stemming from the grounding of the Exxon Valdez will continue to haunt Hazelwood and Hazelwood , 43  former employer , Exxon Corp. 
The company still faces federal criminal charges , and Hazelwood is named in about 150 civil lawsuits seeking financial damages for the oil spill that polluted hundreds of miles of Alaskan shoreline 
It was not clear how Hazelwood's exoneration on serious criminal charges might affect those other cases , but state prosecutors had argued at the close of Hazelwood's trial that Exxon would benefit from an acquittal 
Jurors were clearly swayed by defense arguments that the disastrous grounding was an accident , not a crime 
Some members of the panel said after the verdict that Some members of the panel  felt Hazelwood had been negligent , but not criminally reckless , when Hazelwood , 43  left the bridge about 12 to 15 minutes before the accident 
The bearded Hazelwood was as stoic in victory as airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  had been through more than seven weeks of trial , but airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  smiled broadly as reporters and television cameras mobbed the defense table moments after the jury was polled 
airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  am just relieved , airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  said 
more than seven weeks of trial  is been long and difficult 
airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  was a pretty anonymous character up until about a year ago , Hazelwood told reporters outside the courthouse 
airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  am going to try to get on with my life now 
airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  would like to go back to sea ... 
my life  is what airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  do 
His attorney said that Hazelwood may talk to Exxon about reinstatement and would fight an expected U.S. Coast Guard effort to revoke his master's license 
The only job His attorney  ever had was working on tankers owned or operated by Exxon , so Attorney Michael Chalos  suspect that is what His attorney  wants to do is go back to work as a captain , Chalos said 
Jim Morakis , a spokesman for Exxon in New York , said the company , which has fired Hazelwood , was pleased that the ordeal of the trial is over for captain Hazelwood and airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  family 
The verdict would seem to confirm the view that the grounding of the Exxon Valdez was an accident , Morakis said 
In light of pending litigation , any other comment would be inappropriate 
After the verdict , jury foreman Lori Wing stood and smiled at Hazelwood , wishing airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  good luck before disappearing into the judge's chambers with jury foreman Lori Wing  colleagues 
Hazelwood's tearful father , airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood , pushed through the media throng to embrace Chalos and greet Attorney Michael Chalos  son 
Suzanne Hazelwood , the former captain's wife , reached through the crowd to squeeze jury foreman Lori Wing  husband's hand , then hurried from the courtroom 
Outside the courtroom , Hazelwood at one point broke away from his attorneys to shake hands with one of the jurors , Jeffrey Sage , a 28-year-old grocery manager 
Jeffrey Sage  am glad to see justice done , Mr. Hazelwood , Sage said 
So am I. Thank Jeffrey Sage  , Hazelwood responded 
Sage , whose sister was killed by a drunk driver more than 10 years ago , ridiculed the state's drunk driving case against Hazelwood 
Jeffrey Sage  noted , for example , testimony of the 21 witnesses who saw Hazelwood before and after the grounding , all of whom said Jeffrey Sage  did not appear to be under the influence of alcohol 
For airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  to have had as much to drink as the state said airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  did , airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  would have had to crawl back to the ship , Sage scoffed 
airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  would have been dead 
The key sobriety test , taken 10 hours after the grounding , proved only that the captain's blood alcohol level was .061 % , slightly above the Coast Guard's permissible level but well below the state's .10 % minimum standard 
Prosecutors brought in an Oklahoma toxicologist who used a complicated , and scientifically controversial , formula to estimate that Hazelwood was legally drunk when airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  sailed from Valdez 
The defense argued that Hazelwood , alone in airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  cabin and believing that airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  career had just ended on Bligh Reef , drank after the accident and skewed the test results 
No evidence of that was presented during the trial , however , and Hazelwood did not testify 
Sage also said the panel concluded that Hazelwood's orders before and after the grounding all were prudent and precise 
airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  was not impaired 
Fellow juror Terrill Smith said the panel was leaning to acquittal from the very first ballot , although the panel  took some time to reach unanimous agreement 
The incident that provoked the most discussion , the two jurors said , was Hazelwood's absence from the bridge , leaving airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  third mate responsible for steering around ice floes 
Prosecutor Brent Cole had argued that was an example of criminal recklessness 
The jury agreed with the defense , which noted that Hazelwood had given the correct course instructions and was not behaving differently than other captains in similar situations 
Both jurors also criticized the Coast Guard , which operates a $ 70-million vessel traffic center in Valdez 
Coast Guard radar operators had failed to alert the Exxon Valdez that a $ 70-million vessel traffic center in Valdez  was heading for the rocks of Bligh Reef 
Coast Guard radar operators  obviously were not doing Coast Guard radar operators  jobs , Sage said of the Coast Guard 
In fact , the issue of who is to blame for the disastrous effects of the spill remains unresolved , at least to some extent 
Defense lawyers had complained since the outset that Hazelwood was being held responsible not only for the grounding which Defense lawyers  conceded was a tragic accident but also for the botched containment and cleanup 
A lot of people shared the blame for what happened , but all sides were trying to sink captain Hazelwood 
The state of Alaska , the Coast Guard , the federal government , they all wanted airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  to be now people  scapegoat , said Tom Russo , another defense attorney 
Perhaps now people will look beyond the captain 
Environmental groups quickly reacted to the verdict by agreeing with the defense characterization of Hazelwood as a scapegoat 
Exxon , not one of its employees , should have been tried , said Robert H. Sulnick , executive director of Santa Monica-based American Oceans Campaign 
Bruce Manheim , spokesman for the Environmental Defense Fund in Washington , D.C. , said Environmental groups  think Mr. Hazelwood has been to some extent set up by that corporation as a scapegoat and that Exxon is the real culprit in this disaster , Bruce Manheim  said 
Alaska Atty. Gen. Douglas Baily said at a news conference in Juneau that Alaska Atty. Gen. Douglas Baily  was pleased with the verdict and had congratulated the prosecutors on the single conviction 
Alaska Atty. Gen. Douglas Baily  said the prosecution had proceeded against Hazelwood certainly not as a scapegoat , but as a result of airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  own involvement as state prosecutors  saw the prosecution  
the view  was always Alaska Atty. Gen. Douglas Baily  view that the captain of that vessel is ultimately responsible 
Former Valdez Mayor John Devins said Hazelwood was never the issue 
The real issue confronting the state of Alaska is whether industry is prepared to prevent another oil spill , said Devins , now a candidate for Congress 
Hazelwood's legal battles began within a few days of the grounding 
airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  was still in Valdez when the Coast Guard served a summons notifying the captain that the former captain's  license would be reviewed 
Exxon immediately fired the skipper 
Relieved of command and a job , and with the skipper  personal security in some doubt , the grounded captain drove to Anchorage and flew home to Huntington , Long Island , apparently unaware that local law enforcement officials were preparing a criminal action against the skipper  
In the next few days , Hazelwood would become the object of a highly publicized manhunt launched by embarrassed Alaskan officials who did not know airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  had left the state 
A few days later , however , accompanied by airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  attorneys , Hazelwood surrendered to a court near airline pilot Joseph O. Hazelwood  Long Island home 
Amid a circus of reporters and TV cameras , a Suffolk County judge accused Hazelwood of complicity in an environmental disaster comparable to the atomic bombing of Hiroshima 
Bail was set at $ 1 million 
Hazelwood spent a night in the county jail before an appeals court reduced an appeals court  to $ 25,000 
Last May a grand jury in Alaska added the most serious charge a felony count of criminal mischief that carried a potential penalty of five years in prison setting the stage for the trial that began Feb. 5 
