No one expected John Sununu to go gently 
And John Sununu  did not 
; As John Sununu  final act , the man hired by President Bush to be John Sununu  political hatchet man took a swipe at the boss 
Sununu submitted his resignation , effective Dec. 15 , in a five-page handwritten letter to Bush as they flew to Florida for a speech at a juice factory Tuesday. ; The former New Hampshire governor , ending weeks of speculation and criticism of The former New Hampshire governor  performance , told Bush in the letter The former New Hampshire governor  would never want to not be contributing positively , much less be a drag on your success 
; In thinly veiled comments , Sununu made his resignation  clear that John Sununu  felt betrayed because , in many ways , John Sununu  was doing exactly what Bush had hired President Bush  to do. ; The departing chief of staff was also obliquely reminding the president that this was not a matter of principle , but of ratings ; John Sununu  bullying tactics had been fine as long as the opinion polls did not go down. ; John Sununu  assure The former New Hampshire governor  that in pit-bull mode or pussycat mode (The former New Hampshire governor  choice , as always ), John Sununu  am ready to help , Sununu wrote. ; John Sununu  reference was sardonic 
John Sununu  had called John Sununu  a pussycat and kept a plush cat on top of the bookcase in John Sununu  large West Wing office 
But , at close range , it was clear that the toy animal was really a tiger , and that is exactly how Sununu saw himself. ; As John Sununu  stated John Sununu  credo in John Sununu  first month in Washington : John Sununu  do not care if people hate John Sununu  , as long as people  hate John Sununu  for the right reasons 
; Bush and Sununu formed a close bond during the 1988 campaign , in the snows of New Hampshire , when Bush saw President Bush  presidential dream slipping away after a humiliating showing in Iowa. ; Whatever people  did in Iowa , people  will not reject George Bush in New Hampshire , Sununu vowed , as George Bush in New Hampshire  dragged Bush down from George Bush in New Hampshire  elite perch to start what George Bush in New Hampshire  called a see President Bush  , touch President Bush  , feel President Bush  campaign among the people. ; But it was Sununu who embodied the barbed-wire side of Bush's politics ; in many critical ways , President Bush  was an accurate reflection of the way Bush believed things should work. ; During the 1988 campaign , Bush conceded in interviews that President Bush  had to do some of the dirty work in attacking Dukakis ; President Bush  alternating nice and nasty faces came to be known as George the Gentle and George the Ripper 
; But as president , Bush preferred to farm out to aides the duties of bully and gunslinger. ; By making the abrasive former governor of New Hampshire the abrasive former governor of New Hampshire  chief of staff , Bush hoped that the abrasive former governor of New Hampshire  could keep a certain balance of rough and smooth in the abrasive former governor of New Hampshire  and in the abrasive former governor of New Hampshire  politics. ; In the many times over the past three years when Sununu helped land the president in the political soup , the Washington political cognoscenti speculated that Bush was keeping President Bush  chief of staff only out of loyalty to Sununu for helping President Bush  win the New Hampshire primary , or because Bush was too nice to fire anyone , or because President Bush  was too indecisive. ; The truth is more complicated , and Sununu put his finger on his finger  Tuesday 
While Sununu's lack of political skill in dealing with political Washington eventually cost John Sununu  John Sununu  job , and while John Sununu  fatal flaw may have been in believing that John Sununu  was smarter than Bush , the chief of staff was often in an inept way trying to fulfill the mandate John Sununu  had been given by John Sununu  boss. ; In many critical ways , Sununu exacerbated Bush's limitations , rather than making up for aides  , and whenever the spotlight swung away from foreign affairs , it became painfully apparent that this was a White House without a long-range agenda , without a communications strategy and without first-rate thinkers in many top jobs. ; As Bush tried to be the ultimate Washington insider , the chief of staff alienated Congress , Cabinet members , House Republicans and the press , who disdained Sununu because aides  believed John Sununu  misled aides  
Sununu even tried to manipulate John Sununu  boss on occasion , with the effect that Bush looked weak and waffling. ; When the glow faded from the Persian Gulf war , and the country began looking to the White House for leadership on the stagnant economy and the pain of many Americans , the president once again allowed many Americans  to be guided by Sununu and many Americans  closest White House ally , Richard Darman , the budget chief. ; Sununu and Darman urged the president to follow John Sununu  instincts that there was nothing John Sununu  could do about the economy and that John Sununu  should not even try to come up with a drastic plan. ; Moreover , in the recent fiasco about caps on credit card interest rates , Sununu did something that is never done in a city that operates strictly on hierarchy : John Sununu  blamed the mess on John Sununu  boss , going on national television to say Bush had ad-libbed the idea in a speech. ; Bush appeared out of sync with the country 
John Sununu  approval ratings began dropping again 
Important Republicans scorned by Sununu began going on the record with Sununu and Darman  advice to Bush that Important Republicans scorned by Sununu  was being ill served by Important Republicans scorned by Sununu  chief of staff. ; And finally and most important , the president's wife , Barbara , and oldest son , George , turned on Sununu. ; And so , finally , Bush invited Sununu to resign. ; In accepting Sununu's letter of resignation , Bush said John Sununu  regretted but supported Sununu's good decision 
Important Republicans scorned by Sununu  said Important Republicans scorned by Sununu  aide would remain on at the White House until March 1 as a presidential counselor with Cabinet rank. ; Now Bush must find another chief of staff , and another hired hatchet 
But this time , Important Republicans scorned by Sununu  friends say , Important Republicans scorned by Sununu  will look for aides who can play those roles while also playing by the rules of the Washington game. ; While sources said Transportation Secretary Sam Skinner headed the list of candidates , White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said today Transportation Secretary Sam Skinner  did not believe Bush had made the offer to Skinner. ; Others said to be in the running were Defense Secretary Dick Cheney , who was chief of staff under President Ford ; former GOP Rep. Bill Frenzel of Minnesota ; and former New Jersey Gov. Thomas Kean , a strong Bush loyalist who now is president of Drew University 
