Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas went before the Senate Judiciary Committee today , and leading Democrats said they would use his confirmation hearings to question whether Democrats  favors a radical change in American law including a ban on abortions. ; Thomas sat quietly in a packed committee room , Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  family nearby , as Sen. Joseph Biden pledged open and fair hearings 
But Biden , D-Del. , wasted little time in getting to a topic expected to consume much of the hearings Thomasbelief in natural law , a legal theory that some individual rights are inherent and independent of all government authority 
Sen. Strom Thurmond , the panel's senior Republican , said Thomasrulings as an appeals court judge were within the mainstream and warned his Democratic colleagues about inappropriate questions. ; Requiring a nominee to pass an ideological litmus test would seriously jeopardize the efficacy and independence of the federal judiciary , Thurmond said. ; But Sen. Herb Kohl , D-Wis. , told Thomas , his Democratic colleagues  will want to know what you really think ... Do not hide behind the argument that you ca not discuss the issues 
; Thus was the stage set for what is expected to be a lively set of hearings for Thomas , a black conservative nominated to replace retiring Justice Thurgood Marshall , the nation's first black justice. ; After each of the committee members gave an opening statement , the proceedings were stopped for a 90-minute lunch break 
Thomas was to begin Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  testifying later in the afternoon. ; Even before Biden rapped the opening gavel , Thomasnomination triggered a confirmation battle more akin to a political campaign television commercials , endorsements by dozens of groups for and against , and a daily drumbeat of support from President Bush. ; Abortion aside , Thomas also is expected to be questioned about his views on civil rights especially affirmative action and the right of privacy. ; Thomas smiled broadly as Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  shook hands with Biden and other members of the committee in advance of the opening gavel. ; Moment of humor ; For the most part , Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  sat quietly at the witness table while members of the committee outlined other members of the committee in advance of the opening gavel. ; Moment of humor  views on his nomination. ; There was a moment of humor when Biden asked Thomas how old Sen. Joseph Biden  was 
Thomas , 43 , replied , well , Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  have aged over the last 10 weeks since Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  nomination. ; Sen. Edward M. Kennedy , D-Mass. , said that while Thomas has never commented publicly on abortion directly , the nominee once praised a speech that called abortion the constitutional equivalent of murder 
; But Sen. Orrin Hatch , R-Utah , a strong Thomas supporter , said Thomas should not be forced to spell out Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  views on abortion because Justice David H. Souter , who won Senate confirmation last year , was not required to do so. ; Questioned on natural law ; Biden said Thomas would be asked about Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  belief in natural law 
Some critics contend Thomas holds natural-law views that could lead to the conclusion that fetuses have a right to life requiring states to outlaw all abortions. ; Biden Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  is an advocate of natural law in some form , but Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  said Thomas apparently holds a vision of natural law that dozens of groups  have moved beyond 
; Biden said Sen. Joseph Biden  would be looking closely to see whether Thomasphilosophy would lead to imposition of a moral code on the Constitution and radical change in legal opinion. ; Thurmond , of South Carolina , said Thomas has all South Carolina  takes to become an outstanding member of the Supreme Court 
; It is not appropriate that philosophy alone should bar a nominee from the Supreme Court unless that nominee holds a belief that is contrary to the fundamental , longstanding principles of Some critics  nation , Thurmond said in prepared comments. ; In prepared opening remarks that reflected Democratsambiguity about Thomas , Sen. Patrick V. Leahy , D-Vt. , said , Strom Thurmond  am impressed and the country is by the less-traveled road you have taken from Pinpoint , Ga. , to the threshold of the Supreme Court 
Your self-discipline , diligence and hard work are exemplary. ; But at the same time , your record and your writings trouble your record  , Leahy said 
your record  have no clear idea of your approach to the Constitution 
; the White House  am also troubled by your open admiration for those who are willing to deceive and defy Congress and by the hostility your record  have demonstrated toward Congress both in action and in word , Leahy said. ; As the hearings opened , the White House expressed confidence today that the Senate would confirm Thomas. ; the Senate Judiciary Committee  is just beginning up there ; the Senate Judiciary Committee  is just beginning , Bush said when asked if Thomasconfirmation was assured. ; People know of the White House  total support for Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  and the White House  think Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  will do very well 
But now your open admiration  is in the hands of the Senate 
Let them make this determination , Bush said. ; Independence of the court ; Making a fresh appeal for Thomas on the eve of today's opening hearing , Bush exhorted lawmakers Monday to preserve the independence of the court by avoiding asking the nominee how he would vote. ; But one member of the committee , Sen. Howard Metzenbaum , D-Ohio , said on NBC-TV today : I think we have a right to find out from him exactly what is going through his head on a number of issues 
And Sen. Howard Metzenbaum , D-Ohio  think to do less than that would be irresponsible on our part 
; White House spokesman Judy Smith said today that , although the White House would not divulge numbers in an informal head count , We are confident Judge Thomas will be confirmed 
; If confirmed , Thomas would be the 106th Supreme Court justice but only the second black. ; The committee is expected to closely examine Thomasrecord as chairman of the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and as head of the Education Department's civil rights office 
Liberals contend Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  pursued policies that slowed , or even blocked , increased opportunities for minorities and women. ; Feminist groups have been in the forefront of the liberal coalition opposing Thomas , warning that Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas  vote added to an already conservative Supreme Court could overturn federal protection for abortion rights and send the issue back to state legislatures 
The National Abortion Rights Action League aims to flood Senate offices with half a million anti-Thomas post cards 
