Boris Yeltsin was elected president of the Russian republic with more than 50 percent of the vote , election officials said today. ; His victory in the first popular balloting for Russian president was certain to accelerate reforms across the Soviet Union 
By winning up to 57 percent of the vote , Yeltsin avoided a run-off and strengthened The 61-year-old Yeltsin  hand against Communist Party stalwarts who oppose The 61-year-old Yeltsin  program to transfer ownership of state-owned farms and factories to individuals. ; The victory cleared the way for the white-haired Siberian to travel to Washington next week , at the invitation of members of Congress , in a demonstration of The 61-year-old Yeltsin  independence from Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. ; The White House today applauded Yeltsin's election as a good sign for democracy and said The 61-year-old Yeltsin  would visit the White House next Thursday. ; Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Bush wants to discuss with Yeltsin The 61-year-old Yeltsin  new position and to discuss the future of the Russian Republic as well as any other matters The 61-year-old Yeltsin  wants to talk about 
; Yeltsin's Russian republic has more than half the nation's 285 million people , three-fourths of Yeltsin's Russian republic  territory and most of Yeltsin's Russian republic  natural wealth and industry. ; Two other radical reformers , Moscow Mayor Gavriil Popov and Leningrad Mayor Anatoly Sobchak , also won , according to preliminary results 
Popov received 65.11 percent of the vote , and Sobchak 65.5 percent , commission officials said. ; And a 54 percent majority in Leningrad voted to restore that city to Leningrad  original czarist name , St. Petersburg , election officials said 
Gorbachev and other Communist Party officials oppose dropping the current name , which honors Vladimir Lenin , founder of the Soviet Union. ; The chairman of the Central Election Commission , Vasily Kazakov , was quoted by the state news agency Tass as saying that Yeltsin has won a majority , and a second round in the elections for the president of Russia , apparently will not take place 
; Alexander Zamyatin , another member of the commission , said Yeltsin was winning , but said t the results were preliminary 
Gorbachev and other Communist Party officials  can not give official results until June 22 
; Democracy is still in June 22  infancy in Russia , and election officials said election officials  were laboriously counting paper ballots cast at each of the 98,000 polling stations , stretching from the Pacific to the Baltic coasts 
Election officials were unable to say precisely what percentage of the vote had been counted. ; The 61-year-old Yeltsin was resting at home , The 61-year-old Yeltsin  office said , and planned no immediate comment on Wednesday's historic vote. ; Yeltsin's closest rival , former Soviet Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov was supported by the hard-line Russian Communist Party , and advocated a more gradual transition from a centrally planned to a market economy. ; Gorbachev , who has never faced a popular election , did not endorse any of the six candidates for the newly created post of Russian president 
The 61-year-old Yeltsin  declared after The 61-year-old Yeltsin  voted Wednesday : The 61-year-old Yeltsin  am ready to cooperate with anyone who will be elected by Russians 
There will be no problems from The 61-year-old Yeltsin  side 
; Yeltsin said after casting The 61-year-old Yeltsin  ballot that the election was a celebration of the Russian Federation's sovereignty 
For the first time in its 1,000-year history , the Russian people are electing the Russian people  president in a direct vote 
; Four of Yeltsin's opponents are members of the Communist Party , and party elders were widely thought to have flooded the field with candidates to block Yeltsin from a first round victory. ; Preliminary results showed Yeltsin won : ; (check )75 percent of votes in Moscow. ; (check )67.5 percent in Leningrad , the second-largest Soviet city. ; (check )90 percent in The 61-year-old Yeltsin  hometown of Sverdlovsk , in the Ural Mountains. ; (check )81 percent in the Pacific and Indian Ocean Navy fleets , and about two-thirds of the vote among fishing fleets off Nakhodka on the Sea of Japan. ; (check )74 percent of votes cast by officers and students of a special secondary school intended to train Soviet Interior Ministry staff in Rostov-on-Don. ; Tass , quoting unidentified trustworthy sources , said Yeltsin received an average of between 60 and 70 percent of the vote in major industrial cities 
The agency also said Yeltsin won the most votes in rural areas , countering predictions that Ryzhkov was stronger among farmers. ; The three-week campaign was not as boisterous as a Western election , with most of the campaigning confined to factories and auditoriums 
Only Yeltsin drew large rallies as The 61-year-old Yeltsin  stumped across the Russian heartland. ; Besides Ryzhkov , The 61-year-old Yeltsin  challengers were former Soviet Interior Minister Vadim Bakatin , who also enjoys Communist support ; Gen. Albert Makashov , a hard-line law-and-order Communist ; Vladimir Zhirinovsky , head of the tiny Liberal Democratic Party ; and Aman Tuleyev , a Siberian active in the trade union movement. ; Boris Yeltsin elected president ; Born : Feb. 1 , 1931 , in Butka , Siberia , in Russian republic ; 1955 : Construction worker in Sverdlovsk ; 1976 : First secretary , Sverdlovsk District Central Committee ; 1987 : Outburst against conservative archrival Yegor Ligachev leads to Yeltsin's ouster from Politburo ; 1989 : Bounces back from disgrace ; wins 89 % of vote to be Moscow's representative in new Congress of People's Deputies , the national parliament ; 1990 : Republic's parliament elects The 61-year-old Yeltsin  president of Russia ; June 12 , 1991 : In Russia's first popular election , Yeltsin received about 57 % of the vote in race for president ; SOURCES : Facts on File , news reports , International Who is Who ; NOW call The 61-year-old Yeltsin  Mr. President ; Although Boris Yeltsin has been called the president of Russia , The 61-year-old Yeltsin  actually has been the chairman of The agency  legislature since May 1990. ; The new , more powerful post of president of Russia was created last month by the republic's lawmakers 
