HOT SPRINGS , Ark. He moved into the governor's mansion at 32 , heir to a tradition of progressive Southern governors and ready to light up Arkansas 
HOT SPRINGS  was January 1979 and there was so much to do : Education needed to be overhauled , the business climate needed to be improved , the state needed to be dragged out of the state  slumberous , defeatist past 
Bill Clinton , the youngest governor in the nation since Harold Stassen , had such big plans 
But two years later Mr. Clinton educated at Georgetown , Oxford and Yale , stylish , glib was out of office 
Arkansans chafed at Arkansans  arrogance 
They recoiled at his grand bargain , a small rise in automobile license plate fees in exchange for road improvements 
They did not like the idea that his wife , a lawyer , had not taken his name 
They flinched at being regarded as a backwater reclamation project 
The morning after the 1980 election Arkansans  wife calmly sat in the governor's mansion and called a real-estate agent 
Mr. Clinton quietly tended to paperwork 
But the loss hurt Mr. Clinton  deeply , marked Mr. Clinton  , changed Mr. Clinton  
His friends told Mr. Clinton  to move to a state where Mr. Clinton  would be appreciated , but Mr. Clinton decided to stay and fight and recover 
Mr. Clinton  is now in Mr. Clinton  fifth term as governor , about to become the longest-reigning chief executive in Arkansas history 
Cerebral he once read nearly 300 books in a single year and informal he delights in wearing a rubber witch's mask at Halloween while Little Rock's grandees stroll through the governor's mansion the mature Bill Clinton was shaped by two events , one he witnessed and one he did not 
The one he lived through was his own re-election defeat , the shattering of a dream and , The one he lived through  seemed , of a career 
The one he never saw , some three months before he was born , was the death of his father , thrown from his car on a wet , isolated stretch of highway in southeastern Missouri 
And so if he sometimes seemed a young man in a hurry , there was a reason 
By the time Mr. Clinton  was governor at 32 Mr. Clinton  had already lived three years longer than Mr. Clinton  father , says Mr. Clinton , now 45 years old 
To Mr. Clinton  , Mr. Clinton  was not a young man 
Mr. Clinton  earliest recollection , seared into Mr. Clinton  memory , was of his mother at a New Orleans station platform , on his mother at a New Orleans station platform  knees , sobbing as Mr. Clinton  pulled away in a train 
his mother at a New Orleans station platform  was in nursing school , and young Bill was there on a visit with his grandparents , who were raising young Bill  in Hope , Ark. 
All along young Bill  missed having a father 
a sad place inside me  is a sad place inside me , young Bill  says 
And though young Bill  grandmother tacked playing cards on the window in front of young Bill  high chair to teach young Bill  to count and had young Bill  reading by the time young Bill  was three , it was his mother a woman of strength and sadness who has buried three husbands who taught him to think 
From the start , William Jefferson Blythe IV young Bill  sneaked off to a chancery judge at 15 to take the name Clinton , Mr. Clinton  stepfather's was an introspective young man ; his best friend once said his best friend  did not want to go over to the Clintonshouse and watch Bill read 
The neighborhood kids leaned against the kitchen cabinets in the house on Scully Street as young Bill  mother presided at discussions that sometimes spilled over to debates at Cook's ice-cream parlor and , later , the old Aloha Lounge 
The neighborhood kids  talked about basketball and dating 
But this was the South , in the years just after troops were called out to integrate the Little Rock schools 
Larger issues were part of troops  everyday lives : racial problems , the nature of justice 
So early the wheels were turning about what was wrong in the world , says David Leopoulos , who grew up with David Leopoulos  here , and David Leopoulos  carried a concern about racial justice into adulthood 
Mr. Clinton remembers that Mr. Clinton  grandparents , who owned a grocery store in the black section of Hope , were instinctively opposed to segregation 
The Hot Springs schools were segregated Mr. Clinton  graduated from high school in 1964 but Mr. Clinton  was part of a small group of white students who regarded the system as unjust 
Bill was quite explicit about it : young Bill  thought this was totally unfair , wrong , says Glenda Johnson Cooper , one of his classmates who recalled that not all young Bill  schoolmates agreed 
young Bill  prided young Bill  for knowing Martin Luther King's Martin Luther King's  Have A Dream speech by heart 
Once a year a photographer came to Hot Springs from Dallas , and the portraits , slightly yellow now , show a big-cheeked youngster , somewhat on the pudgy side , with unruly hair 
But there was ferment inside 
As a young man , a young man  overachieved at overachieving 
Though a young man  was reared in a community that not only tolerated but promoted illegal gambling craps and blackjack games flourished in Hot Springs in those years , and slot machines were as common as cigarette machines Billy Clinton was a model citizen 
a young man  was the band major , won the Elks Youth Leadership Award , took calculus and honors English , helped a friend survive physics and went to Boys State and Boys Nation 
When a young man  invited friends over , a young man  would ask His friends  to bring His friends  newspaper so a young man  could do the crossword puzzle 
a young man  rushes through the puzzles today in ink , not pencil 
The competitive streak that a young man  schoolmates noted in the boy remained with a young man  as a man and , if anything , has been amplified by being on the ballot 17 times in the past 17 years 
Years ago a young man  would delight in announcing to a young man  mother that a young man  had beaten Jim McDougal in a math test 
Last year when a group of friends impulsively set out for a midday round of miniature golf , the men came straight from the office in the men  business suits 
Mr. Clinton changed into a golf shirt ; Mr. Clinton  did not want Mr. Clinton  Putt-Putt score to be affected by the 100-degree heat 
Even Mr. Clinton  security guard says the governor plays cards with relentless intensity 
For a man so extroverted , Mr. Clinton is remarkably inner-directed , sometimes examining his own life with a zoom lens , sometimes with a microscope 
a man so extroverted  conclusions can be jarring , even discomfiting 
a kid  had been living with the idea of a kid  father's death , and therefore my own mortality , since a kid  was a kid , a kid  says , and that is maybe why a kid  competed so hard and wanted so much 
Indeed , on a kid  honeymoon a kid  read Ernest Becker's meditations on death , chock full of critiques on Freud and Kierkegaard 
Throughout a kid  life Mr. Clinton has been surrounded by strong women , first a kid  mother , who at 68 still works as an office nurse and who follows the horses from an office nurse  home amid the wisteria here in Hot Springs , and later a kid  wife , who finally came to call an office nurse  Hillary Clinton and with whom Mr. Clinton has shared an intellectually rich if sometimes tempestuous relationship 
strong women  were in wars campaigns , everything else from the beginning , a kid  says , and if the beginning  was not easy , the beginning  was always good 
Today Mr. Clinton refuses to answer have-you-ever ? 
questions about Mr. Clinton  marriage and personal life 
Those who know the couple say that the Clintons have had rocky times problems that led political foes and even some admirers to describe Mr. Clinton as a womanizer 
Mr. Clinton acknowledges that Mr. Clinton  marriage has not been free of difficulties ; Mr. Clinton  parries and , Mr. Clinton  hopes , dismisses the charges with a simple assertion : Anybody who knows us knows we love each other and are committed to our child 
Even so , the early days of his presidential campaign have been so shadowed by talk about marital infidelities that Mr. Clinton  has been forced to address the question , even taking the unusual step of having Mr. Clinton  wife accompany Mr. Clinton  to a breakfast with political reporters in Washington last month 
Mr. Clinton  advisers are plainly , even openly , worried that this question will be a distraction to the campaign , perhaps even an open political wound 
Those who know Mr. Clinton well insist the couple have worked through the difficulties in their relationship 
The Clintons met at Yale Law School , where Mr. Clinton was known for Mr. Clinton  boasts that Mr. Clinton  first hometown , Hope , grew the largest watermelons in the world , and where Hillary Rodham was known as a brilliant student 
Mr. Clinton  first impression was that Hillary Rodham  looked like an interesting woman , attractive but a bit forbidding , and Mr. Clinton  remembers staring at Hillary Rodham  for weeks 
Finally , Hillary Rodham  broke the ice 
Guido Calabresi , now the dean of the Yale Law School , remembers Hillary as a scholar , adding that Bill highly idealistic , mildly conservative , with passionate cares was marked for Cabinet meetings , not partnersmeetings 
A lot of kids at Yale wanted to go into politics , says Lovida Coleman Jr. , a Washington lawyer who knew Mr. Clinton in law school , but Bill was the only one who did not posture about it , the only one to whom the only one who did not posture about it  came naturally 
As law school ended , John Doar , counsel for the Nixon impeachment committee , asked Mr. Clinton to join Mr. Clinton  staff 
the Yale Law School  was one of the biggest plums on the tree , but Mr. Clinton , fatefully , decided not to reach for the Yale Law School  
Mr. Clinton  wanted to return home and run for office 
Hillary took the job instead , and after President Nixon resigned and Bill had moved south Hillary as a scholar  faced the decision Hillary as a scholar  had put off for so long 
Mr. Clinton  was going to have to make this choice , remembers Mrs. Clinton , who had never even known anyone from Arkansas 
this choice  was never in the game plan to grow up and fall in love with someone from Arkansas 
Hillary as a scholar  decided to take the chance , and moved to Fayetteville , where Mr. Clinton was teaching at the University of Arkansas Law School and preparing a valiant but unsuccessful challenge to GOP Rep. John Paul Hammerschmidt 
They became one of the hottest couples in Fayetteville , two intellectual powerhouses in a town so small that Hillary once dialed directory assistance only to be told by the operator that the person Hillary as a scholar  wanted was away for the weekend 
Mr. Clinton , who had seen some of the world during an internship with Senate Foreign Relations Chairman J. William Fulbright of Arkansas and during a Rhodes Scholarship , had big ideas 
Mr. Clinton  came back to Arkansas full of idealism and ambition , says James Blair , the general counsel of Tysons Foods , who used to talk late into the night with Mr. Clinton at a local pizza parlor 
Mr. Clinton  thought Arkansas could be improved , and that Mr. Clinton  could do a lot of good 
Mr. Clinton was elected attorney general , battled corporations and the 25-cent telephone call , and was catapulted to the governor's office 
His Little Rock idyll was ruined both by what Mr. Clinton  has come to call a young man's mistakes and the rioting of Cuban refugees at Fort Chaffee , which occurred during Mr. Clinton  tenure 
Mr. Clinton  was young and Mr. Clinton  was convinced of what was right and Mr. Clinton  wanted to get His Little Rock idyll  done immediately , says Webster Hubbell , a former Arkansas Supreme Court chief justice who is one of Mr. Clinton's closest friends 
Once back in office two years later , Mr. Clinton developed the style Mr. Clinton  would take to the White House if elected : accommodating , adept at forming consensus , conciliatory but chary of confrontation 
Mr. Clinton  is personally approachable , yet Mr. Clinton  office can be inaccessible ; lobbyists say Mr. Clinton  personal bureaucracy is so impenetrable lobbyists  sometimes resort to leaving things off at the governor's mansion 
Mr. Clinton's biggest impact has been in raising education spending and standards 
Mr. Clinton  put Mr. Clinton  wife at the head of the effort and the two of them stumped the state 
Mr. Clinton  fought entrenched interests , including the Arkansas Education Association , threatening to veto a sales-tax increase that provided teacher raises 
Mr. Clinton  staked Mr. Clinton  career on a career  ; as a young man a young man  had come back from Georgetown wondering why people in Arkansas did not have the same educational opportunities that a young man  college classmates did 
Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  saw the light bulb go off at age 19 to want to fix that , remembers Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs 
In the early 1980s came another milestone , the birth of Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  daughter , Chelsea 
Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  got a great gift Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  father never had , Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  says now 
Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  got to see Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  child 
Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  takes Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  parental responsibilities seriously , telling Burt Reynolds Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  would not join Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  at Evening Shade High School because Chelsea had a dance recital that night 
Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  says Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  did not run for president in 1988 because Carolyn Yeldell Staley , who grew up with him in Hot Springs  daughter was not old enough to handle the separation 
Chelsea  is 11 now , and Mr. Clinton says Chelsea  is ready 
Mr. Clinton is older , too 
Mr. Clinton  is had some sobering experiences ; Mr. Clinton  half-brother served a prison term for selling cocaine 
Mr. Clinton  is more prone to compromise and more willing to delegate 
Critics say Mr. Clinton  is been too eager to make peace with the state's leading economic powers and is more effective at national conferences on child care and welfare reform than Mr. Clinton  has been at home , where making major strides in a poor , tradition-bound state is difficult 
But Mr. Clinton  is also more relaxed , more patient , than Mr. Clinton  was when Mr. Clinton  was younger 
Mr. Clinton  spent most of my life being a boy wonder , says Bill Clinton , and it was much overrated 
