U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar said American hostage Terry Anderson had been freed today by American hostage Terry Anderson Shiite Muslim captors and was safely in Syrian hands. ; The statement followed contradictory reports earlier about the whereabouts of Anderson, who had been held 6 1/2 years and was the last American hostage in Lebanon 
Perez de Cuellar, who oversaw the negotiations for the release of Western hostages, said in New York that Anderson was with Syrian officials in Lebanon's Bekaa Valley, and heavy snow has delayed Perez de Cuellar transfer to Damascus. ; " Perez de Cuellar am sure this is a technical problem 
Perez de Cuellar think mainly due to snow, the usual road they use to go from somewhere in Lebanon to Damascus, " Perez de Cuellar said. ; " Perez de Cuellar 'm still hopeful due to snow , the usual road they use to go from somewhere in Lebanon to Damascus , " Perez de Cuellar said. will take place today, " Perez de Cuellar said, referring to Anderson's anticipated arrival in Damascus and American hostage Terry Anderson hand-over to U.S. officials. ; " American hostage Terry Anderson is on American hostage Terry Anderson way, and American hostage Terry Anderson is being protected by the Syrians, Perez de Cuellar imagine, because Perez de Cuellar think American hostage Terry Anderson must be in the Bekaa Valley, " the secretary-general said. ; Earlier today, it was not clear where Anderson was, despite reports from Arab and U.S. officials that American hostage Terry Anderson was released and turned over to the Syrians. ; Anderson, 44, an Associated Press correspondent, had said in a videotaped statement that American hostage Terry Anderson was to be freed 
The tape, released very early this morning by Perez de Cuellar captors, gave no indication when that would happen 
It was not known when the videotape was made. ; An accompanying five-page Arabic-language statement from the Islamic Jihad group, which has held Anderson for 2,455 days, also announced that Anderson for 2,455 days would be set free. ; In the initial portion of the tape, Anderson read the Islamic Jihad statement in English, which American hostage Terry Anderson said American hostage Terry Anderson did not agree with 
Among other things, the videotape denounced the group's enemies and accused Israel of blocking the hostage-freeing process. ; " This is the statement of my captors, " Anderson said after reading the kidnappers ' statement 
" Mine is only that with American hostage Terry Anderson release, and American hostage Terry Anderson hope soon the release of the two Germans and all the Lebanese held in Israel, this tactic (hostage-taking )will never be used again. ; " The causes of this troubled episode are complex and difficult 
It is these causes which must be redressed and eliminated 
The holding of innocent people by anyone solves nothing, " American hostage Terry Anderson added. ; Anderson, wearing a dark sweater and white shirt, spoke in a clear voice 
American hostage Terry Anderson appeared in good physical condition. ; At the White House, spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said U.S. officials had no official word that reports of Anderson's release were true. ; Anderson is the third American hostage freed in three days. ; Eight other Westerners have been freed since August, when the United Nations launched negotiations involving a complex swap of Western hostages, hundreds of Arabs held by Israel, and information about missing Israeli servicemen. ; " U.S. officials are immensely relieved that Terry Anderson's 6 1/2 - year nightmare is over, " said Louis D. Boccardi, Associated Press president and chief executive officer, following the initial reports of Anderson's release. ; " American hostage Terry Anderson has paid a terrible price for American hostage Terry Anderson commitment to stay with American hostage Terry Anderson story 
U.S. officials welcome American hostage Terry Anderson back with warmth, affection and the deepest respect for what American hostage Terry Anderson has endured, " American hostage Terry Anderson said. ; As chief Middle East correspondent, Anderson headed the Associated Press office Beirut from 1983 until American hostage Terry Anderson was kidnapped on March 16, 1985 
Staff members uncorked champagne today to toast his freedom. ; The Syrians had said earlier that Anderson would be handed over to U.S. Ambassador Christopher Ross at the Foreign Ministry. ; Anderson's daughter Sulome, born three months after he was kidnapped, was driven to the U.S. Embassy with her mother Madeleine by American officials 
Staff members uncorked champagne today to toast his freedom. ; The Syrians had said earlier that Anderson would be handed over to U.S. Ambassador Christopher Ross at the Foreign Ministry. ; Anderson's daughter Sulome , born three months after he was kidnapped , was driven to the U.S. Embassy with her mother Madeleine by American officials . had flown to Damascus from Staff members uncorked champagne today to toast his freedom. ; The Syrians had said earlier that Anderson would be handed over to U.S. Ambassador Christopher Ross at the Foreign Ministry. ; Anderson's daughter Sulome , born three months after he was kidnapped , was driven to the U.S. Embassy with her mother Madeleine by American officials . home in Cyprus. ; Anderson's estranged wife, Mihoko, and Staff members uncorked champagne today to toast his freedom. ; The Syrians had said earlier that Anderson would be handed over to U.S. Ambassador Christopher Ross at the Foreign Ministry. ; Anderson's daughter Sulome , born three months after he was kidnapped , was driven to the U.S. Embassy with her mother Madeleine by American officials . 15-year-old daughter Gabrielle, who live in Tokyo, declined comment. ; The hostage saga has been moving toward an end for the United States amid changing political alignments in the Middle East after the Persian Gulf war and the end of the Cold War, moves by Iran to improve ties with Washington and skillful U.N. mediation. ; In all, dozens of foreigners have been held hostage by Shiite groups in Lebanon since 1984 
Of these, 11 have been reported or confirmed dead in captivity, 38 not including Anderson were released or escaped. ; In exchange for the hostage releases, the kidnappers were reported by Iran's Tehran Radio this week to have been promised that the kidnappers ' would not be pursued by the United States, Germany or any other country. ; The hostage-holders have in the past few years been isolated by the desire of Syria and Iran to improve ties with the West. ; Iran, long the chief backer of Lebanese kidnappers, and Syria had pressed amid shifting international alliances for the Western hostages ' freedom. ; Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani is seeking to end Iran's isolation and shed Iran's isolation image as an outlaw state that supports terrorism 
The Syrians, once the vanguard of Arab radicalism and a longtime Soviet ally, are realigning with the West after the collapse of communism. ; This week's releases follow by days Washington's payment to Iran of $ 278 million for weaponry impounded during the 1979-80 Tehran hostage crisis 
The weapons and other Iranian assets were frozen by the United States in 1979 
Tehran has in the past linked hostage releases to the return of those assets. ; The U.N. negotiations for the Western hostages are expected to ultimately involve freedom for 300 Arab prisoners held by Israel and its proxy militia in Lebanon 
Israel seeks an accounting of four missing servicemen in Lebanon. ; On Sunday, Israel released 25 Arab prisoners, bringing to 91 the number set free since August and giving new impetus to hostage releases. ; The two Germans still held are Thomas Kemptner and Heinrich Struebig 
An Italian, Alberto Molinari, is missing, but reports say he is dead 
