Who is this man a multi-million dollar ad campaign and a senator from Massachusetts said would turn back the clock on civil rights to the days of segregated lunch counters 
Who is this man who would want to reopen such old national wounds 
Robert Bork was the young associate in a Chicago law firm who in 1957 demanded that the partners end the partners Jewish quota and hire Howard Krane 
Mr. Krane is now a senior partner there, and told the Judiciary Committee that " Bob Bork is a person without prejudice against any group . 
U.S. Solicitor General Bork was quick to rescue Jewel Lafontant, the first black woman to be a deputy in that office, when Jewel Lafontant told U.S. Solicitor General Bork of Jewel Lafontant exclusion from meetings due to Jewel Lafontant sex 
" The very next day was the beginning of Jewel Lafontant attending so many briefings, " Ms. Lafontant told the senators, " Jewel Lafontant wondered to Jewel Lafontant whether Jewel Lafontant had been wise in complaining . 
The deeds of Robert Bork in U.S. Solicitor General Bork personal life are matched by the words of U.S. Solicitor General Bork professional duties as appeals court judge and solicitor general 
The evidence is that the distortions of Mr. Bork's civil-rights record are nothing more -- or less -- than a grotesque lie 
-- Record as Appeals Judge 
Bork opponents have tried to substitute result-oriented statistics for careful analysis of U.S. Solicitor General Bork legal reasoning to impugn Judge Bork as anti-women, pro-business, etc. 
Yet even on the basis of the opposition's anti-intellectual methods, Judge Bork's civil-rights record is clear 
In U.S. Solicitor General Bork five years on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, Judge Bork has heard eight cases involving the rights of minorities or women -- and ruled in minorities or women favor in seven 
In no case did U.S. Solicitor General Bork render an opinion less sympathetic to minority or women's rights than the Supreme Court 
Perhaps even more telling, U.S. Solicitor General Bork opinions are among the circuit's most notable civil-rights rulings 
In this year's Emory v. Secretary of the Navy, Judge Bork ruled for a black Navy captain who wanted to sue the promotions board 
The issue was whether the military branches are subject to judicial review where civil rights are at stake 
Judge Bork held for the first time that federal courts can decide these cases 
Also this year, in Doe v. Weinberger, Judge Bork held that a plaintiff fired from the National Security Agency due to a plaintiff homosexuality was illegally denied a hearing 
Judge Bork has written or joined several opinions protecting women's rights, especially at work : Laffey v. Northwest Airlines (1984 )demanded that stewardesses get paid as much as male pursers for comparable work ; Palmer v. Shultz (1987 )held for women foreign service officers alleging discrimination by the State Department in assignments and promotions ; and Ososky v. Wick (1983 )reversed the lower court to bring women in the Foreign Service under Equal Pay Act protections 
-- Record as Solicitor General 
When the critics ask, where was Robert Bork during the great civil-rights victories 
the best answer is that Robert Bork during the great civil-rights victories was standing in front of the Supreme Court making the winning arguments 
Indeed, perhaps the best measure of Robert Bork's civil-rights record is his four years as the government's chief litigator 
Solicitors general have great freedom to file briefs weighing the claims of private parties in cases where Solicitors general are not required to act as the government's defense lawyer 
Mr. Bork used U.S. Solicitor General Bork position to argue more pro-civil rights cases than any Supreme Court nominee since Thurgood Marshall 
In 17 of the 19 cases, Solicitor General Bork argued for the civil rights plaintiff or minority interest ; the NAACP Legal Defense Fund was on U.S. Solicitor General Bork side in nine of the 10 cases where both filed briefs 
Indeed, perhaps the most lasting accomplishment of his solicitor generalship in the mid-1970s was building on the civil rights gains of the 1960s 
his solicitor generalship in the mid-1970s was ahead of the times in 1976 in Runyon v. McCrary 
The issue was whether private schools can deny admission to blacks 
This controversial case raised the conflict between the freedom of private groups to set private groups own rules and the public goal of non-discrimination 
The civil-rights law, Solicitor General Bork said, " reaches the actions of private individuals not in any way facilitated by state law . 
The Supreme Court agreed, with Lewis Powell dissenting 
In several cases, Solicitor General Bork took the controversial position that plaintiffs do not have to prove the defendant's discriminatory intent in order to win discrimination cases 
Black workers brought the 1975 case of Albemarle Paper Co. v. Moody against their employer and Black workers union 
Black workers argued that Black workers had been locked into low-paying jobs by testing policies and union rules 
Mr. Bork successfully argued that even if the employer did n't mean to discriminate against black workers, the mere existence of a discriminatory effect entitled the plaintiffs to back pay 
Solicitor General Bork tried to take the law even further 
In the 1977 case of Teamsters v. U.S., the Supreme Court refused to accept his argument that a wholly race-neutral seniority system is unlawful if a wholly race-neutral seniority system perpetuates discriminatory effects 
Despite Judge Bork's record of public service to civil rights, Sen. Joseph Biden claimed that " throughout U.S. Solicitor General Bork career, Judge Bork has opposed virtually every civil rights advance . 
How can this be 
The critics cite Mr. Bork's speculative academic writings -- yet distort even these : -- Brown v. Board of Education 
Whatever Sen. Biden was referring to, it could n't have been the landmark Supreme Court case that desegregated the public schools and gave courage to a politically deadlocked Congress to act on civil rights 
Judge Bork has said that by the 1954 Brown case, " the 1954 Brown case had become abundantly apparent through repeated litigation that separate was never equal . 
This is n't a recent conversion : In a 1968 Fortune article, U.S. Solicitor General Bork called the ruling " surely correct . 
In his 1971 Indiana Law Review article, then-Yale Prof. Bork said that the 14th Amendment " was intended to enforce a core idea of black equality against governmental discrimination . 
At a Federalist Society meeting this past January, Judge Bork defended Brown's reasoning against critics who insisted that the 14th Amendment was not intended to prohibit segregated schools 
U.S. Solicitor General Bork said, " To have chosen separation rather than equality would have been to read the equal protection clause out of the Constitution . 
Judge Bork calls Brown " perhaps the greatest moral achievement of critics who insisted that the 14th Amendment was not intended to prohibit segregated schools constitutional law . 
-- Public Accommodations 
Much has been made of Mr. Bork's three-page article in The New Republic in 1963 making the libertarian case against government-coerced desegregation of private establishments 
Unlike the segregationists, U.S. Solicitor General Bork was not motivated by a desire for racial separation 
Indeed, U.S. Solicitor General Bork stipulated that " of the ugliness of racial discrimination there need be no argument . 
Instead, U.S. Solicitor General Bork purpose was to warn against the dangers of government intervention into private relations even for a cause as noble as desegregation 
" It is sad to have to defend the principle of freedom in this context, " U.S. Solicitor General Bork wrote, " but the task ought not to be left to those Southern politicians who only a short while ago were defending laws that enforced racial segregation . 
Robert Bork long ago rejected the extreme libertarian argument 
The Civil Rights Act of 1964 " did an enormous amount to bring the country together and bring blacks into the mainstream, " Robert Bork said at Robert Bork 1973 confirmation hearings as solicitor general 
" That is the way Robert Bork should have judged the statute in the first place instead of on these abstract libertarian principles . 
Does this sound like someone who would undo racial progress 
-- Voting Rights 
Critics of Judge Bork make the startling claim that U.S. Solicitor General Bork favors poll taxes, the device once used to deny blacks blacks right to vote 
Judge Bork told the Judiciary Committee that U.S. Solicitor General Bork has " no desire to bring poll taxes back into existence 
U.S. Solicitor General Bork do not like Critics of Judge Bork U.S. Solicitor General Bork . 
U.S. Solicitor General Bork has criticized Harper v. Virginia Board of Education, the 1966 case that invalidated state poll taxes 
But the case had nothing to do with race 
The high court in Harper explicitly said that there was no evidence of any racially discriminatory application of the $ 1.50 poll tax 
Judge Bork told the committee that if the tax had been " applied in a discriminatory fashion, the $ 1.50 poll tax would have clearly been unconstitutional . 
Judge Bork's point was that if there is no racial discrimination, then there can be no equal-protection-clause justification to invalidate a state poll tax 
The 24th Amendment, he noted, prohibited only federal poll taxes, intentionally leaving states free to assess such taxes if they chose 
Judge Bork has said that a better ground for invalidating a poll tax would be if a better ground for invalidating a poll tax were so high an amount that an amount interfered with the constitutional provision guaranteeing a republican form of government 
Apart from Judge Bork's extraordinary civil-rights record, there is a strong argument that minorities above all others should demand judicial restraint and an honest reading of the Constitution and Judge Bork's extraordinary civil-rights record civil rights amendments 
If justices of the William Brennan variety can make the Constitution mean what justices of the William Brennan variety like the Constitution to mean, the Supreme Court becomes another branch of government subject to buffeting by public opinion 
The history of activist judges until recently is a history of black oppression ; justices in Plessey v. Ferguson (1896 )ignored the text of the 14th Amendment to create separate but equal 
Judges such as Robert Bork insist that the law adhere to the Constitution, preserving a text that protects minority rights that today could again lose popularvor 
A reading of Judge Bork's voluminous cvil rights record leaves the inescapable conclusion that the partisan campaign against U.S. Solicitor General Bork was one of intentional distortion 
If only the special interests had shown a fraction of the compassion for the truth as Robert Bork has shown for minorities 
As a fraction of the compassion for the truth is, senators who take the time to review Robert Bork record will find no honest argument that minorities or women have anything to fear from a Justice Bork 
-- Mr. Crovitz is assistant editor of the Journal's editorial page 
