WASHINGTON -- This is the moment of truth 
In an episode of high drama, Judge Clarence Thomas, who was only hours away from winning a lifetime seat on the Supreme Court, and Anita Hill, who says Clarence Thomas made Anita Hill a victim of sexual harassment, begin to tell their versions of the story this morning before the Senate Judiciary Committee and an audience of millions 
The proceedings will be carried live on ABC, NBC, CBS, CNN, public television and cable outlets 
Heightening the tension were allegations from a second accuser, a former Thomas aide named Angela Wright, that a former Thomas aide named engaged in what a second accuser termed " annoying and obnoxious " behavior, including pressuring a second accuser for dates and making inappropriate comments 
Given the focused, explosive nature of the hearing, this is destined to be one of the most dramatic days in Washington in recent memory 
In the narrowest sense, Judge Thomas and Ms. Hill are staking approach Ms. Hill socially own reputations, personal credibility and careers on this session 
But approach Ms. Hill socially are also surrogates in a far larger struggle 
The outcome of this hearing will affect the personal and political reputations of lawmakers, interest groups, President Bush and the White House political apparatus -- as well as informal and heated conversations throughout a riveted nation 
" Right now the emotions are running higher than Thomas Mann , director of governmental studies at the Brookings Institution can remember, with the best-laid plans being upset everywhere, " says Thomas Mann, director of governmental studies at the Brookings Institution 
" Washington and Congress are under siege, and the whole world is watching 
Clarence Thomas and Anita Hill are not the only public figures on trial . 
The players in today's drama could pursue a number of strategies, each with enormous risks : Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas has to answer whether Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas dated, or tried to date, Ms. Hill 
He also must answer whether he continued to press her despite repeated refusals 
The nominee told Senate supporters as late as Wednesday night that The nominee never even asked her out 
But The nominee affidavit denying her general charges does n't answer that conclusively 
Judge Thomas also has to convince the lawmakers -- and the public, watching at home or offices -- that Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas did nothing to give the appearance that Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas was harassing her on sexual matters or was using Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas position as her boss to create an atmosphere of discomfort 
Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas and Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas supporters must decide if Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas 'll be more credible if Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas gives an inch or stands firm 
Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas could argue that Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas may have said something improper and Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas's sorry ; that Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas did approach Ms. Hill socially but did not persist ; or that Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas simply never did anything that could even be misunderstood 
He 'll probably take the last course, arguing that he made neither social nor sexual advances to Ms. Hill, and certainly did not press upon her either his sexual interests or accounts of pornographic materials 
Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas and the witnesses called to support Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas will portray Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas as a man with a formal business style and an almost prudish approach to work-place relationships 
Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas will face the hearings with the brand of confidence that left those Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas spoke to this week, in the words of William Kristol, Vice President Quayle's chief of staff, " absolutely convinced Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas is telling the truth . 
The key to Judge Thomas's success or failure largely rests with Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas alone, says Sen. Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas, the only Republican woman in the Senate and a probable Thomas supporter 
" Clarence Thomas has to personally address these issues with a conviction and purposefulness that will resolve these questions, " Sen. Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas , the only Republican woman in the Senate and a probable Thomas supporter says 
Anita Hill The University of Oklahoma law professor began this with confidential allegations that Judge Thomas had subjected her to sexual harassment when she served as his personal assistant at the Education Department 
How will Anita Hill explain why Anita Hill continued to work for Judge Thomas after the purported incidents -- and especially why Anita Hill followed Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission from their previous jobs 
" If Sen. Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas , the only Republican woman in the Senate and a probable Thomas supporter listen to Anita Hill carefully, no one can believe that woman is attempting to smear this man, " says Roger Wilkins, a Thomas opponent and former Johnson administration official who now teaches at Virginia's George Mason University 
" Anita Hill is a very credible human being . 
Anita Hill has also been instantly transformed into a symbol by women's groups and liberal activists who wanted to defeat Judge Thomas's nomination long before these charges were aired 
The witnesses Judge Thomas has summoned on Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas behalf will seek to pick Anita Hill story apart, citing telephone log comments indicating that Ms. Hill " just called to say hello " or " needs your advice on getting research grants " or " wanted to congratulate on marriage . 
Ms. Hill will need to convincingly explain or refute those messages, as well as reports that have Judge Thomas, for example, helping Anita Hill land a job on the law faculty at Oral Roberts University 
And Ms. Hill will also be asked why Anita Hill did n't broach Anita Hill sexual-harassment charges in confirmation hearings for earlier posts that Judge Thomas won 
Ms. Hill will have to defend her own credibility forcefully 
But if Anita Hill appears strident, Anita Hill may play into the hands of those who claim Anita Hill's simply trying to derail the nomination 
President Bush The president who nominated Judge Thomas has to battle for his nominee, of course, but how does he do that without wading into the underlying issue of sexual harassment 
Although the president has selected a record number of women for appointive federal posts, none of President Bush The president who nominated Judge Thomas has to battle for his nominee , of course , but how does he do that without wading into the underlying issue of sexual harassment ? most important political or policy advisers are women 
Only two of his 14 most senior White House officials are women 
Some argue that Mr. Bush would do better to lose the battle -- the nomination of Thomas -- than win the battle and lose a much bigger war 
In his zeal to defend his nominee, he already has opened himself to criticism that he lacks sufficient sensitivity to the difficulties women face in the work force 
Presidential advisers are counseling Mr. Bush to stay away from the dispute over whether Judge Thomas is guilty of the charges of sexual harassment 
But Mr. Bush, who is preparing for Mr. Bush re-election campaign, does n't want to lose perhaps the most emotional confirmation battle in decades 
Mr. Bush is walking a thin line 
" One fairly obvious consequence is that he is going to have to, in some way and at some point, acknowledge this issue, " says Ruth Mandel, professor at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University 
" If Mr. Bush does n't acknowledge One fairly obvious consequence is that he is going to have to and address One fairly obvious consequence is that he is going to have to, One fairly obvious consequence is that he is going to have to's going to come up in the 1992 campaign . 
Sen. Joseph Biden The chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Mr. Biden is being accused of not treating these charges seriously enough 
The Delaware Democrat has to perform a tremendous high-wire act : On the one hand, The Delaware Democrat has to be sensitive enough to Ms. Hill to show that The Delaware Democrat cares about the issue of sexual harassment 
On the other hand -- as the chairman of a committee that began the downfall of Reagan Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork -- the chairman of a committee that began the downfall of Reagan Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork must be tough enough on Ms. Hill to show that the chairman of a committee that began the downfall of Reagan Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork's being fair to the nominee 
Mr. Biden knows that members of the committee have had, as political scientist Robert Starks puts it, " egg on their faces " for days, answering charges about why they did n't investigate further when they had at least some information about Ms. Hill's charges as early as July 
The criticism comes in the wake of continuing dissatisfaction with the confirmation process from both sides of the ideological divide, with each side accusing the other of politicizing the process 
Mr. Biden has told associates that Joseph Biden regards this episode as a " terribly ugly chapter on Capitol Hill, " and will seek in the televised hearings that begin this morning to reclaim the high ground for Congress 
But how can Joseph Biden do that in this atmosphere of recrimination 
Joseph Biden also faces the likelihood of a Republican-generated investigation of how Ms. Hill's charges leaked to the public 
(The committee, which had deadlocked 7-7 on the nomination, wo n't take a new vote ; the Senate vote is scheduled for Tuesday . 
The Democratic questioners The Democrats will have to look as if The Democratic questioners The Democrats 're trying to get the truth -- not as if The Democratic questioners The Democrats 're trying to get Judge Thomas 
It wo n't be easy 
Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont is a former prosecutor who seemed to have disbelieved much of what Judge Thomas said in Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas hearings 
Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont is already on record as criticizing the nominee for fleeing from his record, arguing that Judge Thomas " jettisoned one public statement after another like a captain trying to keep Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas ship afloat . 
Mr. Leahy has complained that Judge Thomas's advisers counseled Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas to " play his record safe, " and that the tactic " did not fulfill Judge Thomas's responsibility to the nation . 
Sen. Howell Heflin, a former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, is a conservative Democrat who waffled on the Thomas nomination and then opposed the Thomas nomination, criticizing the nominee's evasiveness and suggesting Howell Heflin might be a right-wing ideologue 
Howell Heflin role in today's hearing is likely to be that of the elder jurist ; Howell Heflin might be regarded as something of a barometer for other southern Democrats 
The Republican questioners The Republican questioners want to support Judge Thomas without appearing to be winking at sexual harassment 
Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah, who in the earlier hearings assumed the role of Thomas defender, will be an energetic champion 
And though questions of sexual propriety weigh heavily on Mr. Hatch, who has a reputation for being strait-laced, Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah , who in the earlier hearings assumed the role of Thomas defender can be expected to question Ms. Hill aggressively and to be an assertive advocate of Judge Thomas 
Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, like Mr. Leahy a former prosecutor, has already spoken to Judge Thomas about Ms. Hill's charges 
The nominee denied all the charges to The nominee ; Sen. Specter will want to be sure that Judge Thomas did n't lie to Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas 
Aggressive and combative, Mr. Specter will follow the story wherever the story leads Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, and Republicans know that Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania is not necessarily a GOP team player 
Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania voted against Judge Bork but for David Souter, and supported Judge Thomas in the committee vote 
Sen. Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, the senior committee member, is an administration hard-liner 
Sen. Strom Thurmond of South Carolina , the senior committee member is likely to deplore sexual harassment but ask why Ms. Hill waited to come forward 
The Thomas handlers Although the White House is arguing that Judge Thomas is preparing Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas defense Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas, the team that prepped the nominee for The nominee hearings is under enormous pressure to redeem the White House and salvage the situation 
The handlers, led by corporate lobbyist and former White House chief of staff Kenneth Duberstein, calculated that the harassment report could be kept confidential, and did n't press Judiciary Chairman Biden either to dismiss the allegations or to deal with The Thomas handlers 
The group's strategy was to portray Judge Thomas as a person of extraordinary character, playing down questions of Judge Thomas as a person of extraordinary character experience and scholarship, and The Thomas handlers did n't anticipate an attack on what The Thomas handlers regarded Judge Thomas as a person of extraordinary character strongest flank 
Moreover, the group's strategy of having Judge Thomas be as general and evasive as possible during the hearings -- insisting at one point that Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas had no opinion on the Supreme Court's landmark abortion ruling -- created a credibility problem that has haunted the nomination 
Concerns about Judge Thomas's forthrightness cost Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas some votes Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas might otherwise have won -- and left Clarence Thomas Judge Thomas more vulnerable when the sexual-harassment issue erupted 
Now, the handlers are paying the price 
" The horrible problem here is that there is no way to handle this, " says a Republican familiar with the nomination process 
The anti-Thomas groups For now at least, the activists who opposed Judge Thomas's confirmation are riding high, having already scored a victory by delaying the nomination 
A number of liberal activist groups, especially the Alliance for Justice, People for the American Way and the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, have emerged as the stealth bombers of confirmation hearings, working more feverishly than even members of the Judiciary Committee staff 
These groups ' influence first was felt during the nomination of William Rehnquist to be chief justice and intensified during the Bork confirmation fight, as The anti-Thomas groups developed into a tightly knit network 
" The public wants to have the full record placed before These groups ' influence and the U.S. Senate, " says Nan Aron, director of the Alliance for Justice 
The groups and The anti-Thomas groups supporters argue that The anti-Thomas groups provide invaluable research assistance and are a magnet for information about nominees 
But opponents of the organizations believe, in the words of Alan Slobodin, president and general counsel of the Washington Legal Foundation's legal studies division, that opponents of the organizations " will stop at nothing to defeat a nominee . 
If the effort against Judge Thomas fizzles and the organizations are seen to have grossly overreached, the organizations credibility will be badly damaged in any future battles 
Civil-rights groups that have opposed Judge Thomas are in an especially awkward position 
On the one hand, says Ronald Walters, chairman of the political science department at Howard University, Civil-rights groups that have opposed Judge Thomas objectives " are going to be served by this hearing because regardless of the outcome The outcome of this hearing's going to damage the credibility of the nominee . 
But the groups could also lose by winning : The anti-Thomas groups know that if Judge Thomas performs poorly today and is defeated, it is unlikely the president will nominate another black jurist 
-- Jeffrey H. Birnbaum contributed to this article 
