WASHINGTON -- Embattled White House Chief of Staff John Sununu, fighting for White House Chief of Staff John Sununu political survival, has a rare bit of good news : While Americans generally do n't approve of White House Chief of Staff John Sununu actions, most do n't think White House Chief of Staff John Sununu should resign 
In a new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, voters were asked whether charges of inappropriate use of government and corporate transportation by Mr. Sununu are so serious that the combative Mr. Sununu should resign 
More than 80 % of the voters surveyed were aware of the flap, and among the voters surveyed, a clear majority, 58 %, said the assertions are n't serious enough for the combative Mr. Sununu to resign 
Just 33 % said the combative Mr. Sununu should quit 
The remainder either did n't have an opinion or refused to answer 
Even among Democrats, 49 % did n't think Democrats should resign, while 42 % thought Democrats should 
That hardly means Mr. Sununu is out of the woods, of course 
Though President Bush says Mr. Sununu's job is safe for now, the ruckus over the chief of staff's extensive use of government and corporate jets and cars has brought to the surface a host of Sununu enemies who are likely to keep gunning for President Bush demise 
And while voters are n't clamoring for Mr. Sununu's head, voters have formed a more negative impression of the combative Mr. Sununu 
The survey found that 41 % of voters have a negative view of the chief of staff, while just 10 % said voters have positive feelings 
Last October, the view was n't so clearly negative 
Then, just 20 % said voters had negative feelings about Mr. Sununu, while 18 % reported positive feelings 
The Journal/NBC poll was conducted jointly by Democratic pollster Peter Hart and Republican pollster Robert Teeter 
Democratic pollster Peter Hart and Republican pollster Robert Teeter canvassed 1,006 registered voters by telephone from last Saturday through Tuesday, a period when the latest flap over Mr. Sununu's failure to inform the White House counsel's office accurately about the procurement of a corporate jet the White House counsel's used to attend a Chicago fund-raiser was in full swing 
The poll's findings are likely to fuel arguments by Mr. Sununu's supporters that the controversy over the combative Mr. Sununu travel is n't being taken as seriously in the country at large as a new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll is inside Washington 
Mr. Sununu admitted that the combative Mr. Sununu made mistakes in using government planes and the combative Mr. Sununu White House car for personal and political business, and the combative Mr. Sununu has adopted a low profile 
the combative Mr. Sununu appears to be calculating that the combative Mr. Sununu can ride out the storm 
The criticism is n't likely to stop, though 
Enemies of the combative Mr. Sununu are trying to capitalize on the combative Mr. Sununu weakened position to hurt the combative Mr. Sununu, largely through anonymous criticisms and attacks 
Some administration aides and Republican strategists are arguing, for instance, that Republican now is a clear political liability and should be pushed aside before Mr. Bush's re-election campaign gets into full swing 
There also is quiet lobbying against Mr. Sununu by Israel's supporters, who long have been suspicious of him because of his links to Arab-American groups and his refusal as governor of New Hampshire to endorse a proclamation condemning a United Nations vote equating Zionism with racism 
Israel backers, for instance, have been circulating a 1988 proclamation Mr. Sununu by Israel's supporters , who long have been suspicious of him because of his links to Arab-American groups and his refusal as governor of New Hampshire to endorse a proclamation condemning a United Nations vote equating Zionism with racism signed as governor honoring the crew of the Liberty, a U.S. ship attacked by Israeli forces under murky circumstances during the 1967 Arab-Israeli war 
